
PROLOGUE

ARTEMIS FOWL:

SO FAR, SO BAD

ARTEMIS was once an Irish boy who longed to know everything there was to know, so he read book after book until his brain swelled with astronomy, calculus, quantum physics, romantic poets, forensic science, and anthropology, among a hundred other subjects. But his favorite book was a slim volume that he’d never once read himself. It was an old hardback that his father often chose as a bedtime tale, entitled The Crock of Gold, which told the story of a greedy bucko who captured a leprechaun in a vain effort to steal the creature’s gold.

When the father had finished reading the last word on the last page, which was Fin, he would close the worn leather-bound cover, smile down at his son, and say, "That boy had the right idea. A little more planning and he would have pulled it off," which was an unusual opinion for a father to voice. A responsible father, at any rate. But this was not a typically responsible parent— this was Artemis Fowl Senior, the kingpin of one of the world’s largest criminal empires. The son was not so typical either. He was Artemis Fowl II, soon to become a formidable individual in his own right, both in the world of man and the fairy world beneath it.

A little more planning, Artemis Junior often thought as his father kissed his forehead. Just a little more planning.

And he would fall asleep and dream of gold.

As young Artemis grew older, he often thought about The Crock of Gold. He even went so far as to do a little research during schooltime and was surprised to find a lot of credible evidence for the existence of the fairy folk. These hours of study and planning were nothing but lighthearted distractions for the boy until the day his father disappeared in the Arctic following a misunderstanding with the Russian Mafiya. The Fowl empire quickly disintegrated, with creditors crawling out of the woodwork and debtors burrowing into it.

It is up to me, Artemis realized. To rebuild our fortune and find Father.

So he dusted off the leprechaun folder. He would catch a fairy and ransom it back to its own people for gold.

Only a juvenile genius could make this plan a success, Artemis correctly concluded. Someone old enough to grasp the principles of commerce, yet young enough to believe in magic.

With the help of his more than capable bodyguard, Butler, twelve-year-old Artemis actually succeeded in capturing a leprechaun and holding it captive in Fowl Manor’s reinforced basement. But this leprechaun was a she not an it. And remarkably humanoid with it. What Artemis had previously thought of as temporarily detaining a lesser creature now seemed uncomfortably like abducting a girl.

There were other complications too: these leprechauns were not the hokey fairies of storybooks. They were high-tech creatures with attitude, members of an elite fairy police squad: the Lower Elements Police Reconnaissance Unit, or LEPrecon, to use their acronym. And Artemis had kidnapped Holly Short, the first female captain in the unit’s history. An act that had not endeared him to the well-armed fairy underworld.

But in spite of a niggling conscience and LEP attempts to derail his plan, Artemis managed to take delivery of his ill-gotten gold, and in return he released the elfin captain.

So, all’s well that ends well?

Not really.

No sooner had the earth settled from the first fairy– human standoff in decades than the LEP uncovered a plot to supply the goblin gangs with power sources for their softnose lasers. Number one suspect: Artemis Fowl. Holly Short hauled the Irish boy down to Haven City for interrogation, only to discover, to her amazement, that Artemis Fowl was actually innocent of something. The two struck an uneasy bargain, where Artemis agreed to track down the goblins’ supplier if Holly would help him to rescue his father from the Russian gang that held him prisoner. Both parties upheld their respective ends of the bargain, and in the process developed a respect and trust for each other that was underpinned by a shared sharp sense of humor.

Or at least this used to be the case. Recently, things have changed. In some ways he is as sharp as ever, but a shadow has fallen across Artemis’s mind.

Once upon a time, Artemis saw things that no one else could see, but now he sees things that are not there. . . .





CHAPTER 1

COLD VIBES

Vatnajökull, Iceland

Vatnajökull is the biggest glacier in Europe, with an area of more than five thousand stark blue-white miles. It is, for the most part, uninhabited and desolate and, for scientific reasons, the perfect place for Artemis Fowl to demonstrate to the Fairy People how exactly he planned to save the world. Also, a little dramatic scenery never hurts a presentation.

One part of Vatnajökull that does see human traffic is the Great Skua restaurant on the shores of the glacier lagoon, which caters to groups of ice tourists from May to August. Artemis had arranged to meet the proprietor at this closed for the season establishment very early on the morning of September first. His fifteenth birthday.

Artemis steered his rented snowmobile along the lagoon’s rippling coastline, where the glacier sloped into a black pool dotted with a crazy-paving pattern of broken ice plates. The wind roared around his head like an excited crowd in a stadium, carrying with it arrowheads of sleet that peppered his nose and mouth. The space was vast and unforgiving, and Artemis knew that to be injured alone on this tundra would lead to a quick and painful death—or at the very least abject humiliation before the popping flashes of the tourist season’s tail end, which was slightly less painful than a painful death, but lasted longer.

The Great Skua’s owner—a burly Icelander in proud possession of both a walrus mustache with the wingspan of a fair-sized cormorant and the unlikely name of Adam Adamsson—stood in the restaurant’s porch, popping his fingers and stamping his feet to an imaginary rhythm and also finding the time to chuckle at Artemis’s erratic progress along the lagoon’s frozen shore.

"That was a mighty display," said Adamsson when Artemis finally managed to ram the snowmobile into the restaurant’s decking. "Hell, harður maður. I haven’t laughed that hard since my dog tried to eat his reflection."

Artemis smiled dourly, aware that the restaurateur was poking fun at his driving skills, or lack thereof. "Hmmph," he grunted, dismounting the Ski-Doo as stiffly as a cowboy after three days on a cattle drive, whose horse had died, forcing him to ride the broadest cow in the herd.

The old man actually cackled. "Now you even sound like my dog."

It was not Artemis Fowl’s habit to make undignified entrances, but without his bodyguard Butler on hand, he had been forced to rely on his own motor skills, which were famously unsophisticated. One of the sixth-year wits at St. Bartleby’s School, the heir to a hotel fortune, had nicknamed Artemis Left Foot Fowl, as in he had two left feet and couldn’t kick a football with either of them. Artemis had tolerated this ribbing for about a week and then bought out the young heir’s hotel chain. This choked the teasing off abruptly.

"Everything is ready, I trust?" said Artemis, flexing fingers inside his patented Sola-Gloves. He noticed that one hand was uncomfortably warm; the thermostat must have taken a knock when he’d clipped an ice obelisk half a mile down the coast. He tugged out the power wire with his teeth; there was not much danger of hypothermia, as the autumn temperature hovered just below zero.

"And hello to you," said Adamsson. "Nice to finally meet you face-to-face, if not eye-to-eye."

Artemis did not rise to the forge-a-relationship lure that Adamsson had tossed out. He did not have room in his life at the moment for yet another friend that he didn’t trust.

"I do not intend to ask you for your daughter’s hand in marriage, Mr. Adamsson, so I think we can skip over any icebreakers you may feel obliged to offer. Is everything ready?"

Adam Adamsson’s pre-prepared icebreakers melted in his throat, and he nodded half a dozen times.

"All ready. Your crate is around the back. I have supplied a vegetarian buffet and goody bags from the Blue Lagoon Spa. A few seats have been laid out too, as bluntly requested in your terse e-mail. None of your party turned up, though—nobody but you—after all my labors."

Artemis lifted an aluminium briefcase from the SkiDoo’s luggage box. "Don’t you worry about that, Mr. Adamsson. Why don’t you head back to Reykjavík and spend some of that extortionate fee you charged me for a couple of hours’ usage of your frankly third-rate restaurant and perhaps find a friendless tree stump to listen to your woes?"

A couple of hours. Third-rate. Two plus three equals five. Good.

Now it was Adamsson’s turn to grunt, and the tips of his walrus mustache quivered slightly.

"No need for the attitude, young Fowl. We are both men, are we not? Men are entitled to a little respect."

"Oh, really? Perhaps we should ask the whales? Or perhaps the mink?"

Adamsson scowled, his windburned face creasing like a prune. "Okay, okay. I get the message. No need to hold me responsible for the crimes of man. You teenagers are all the same. Let’s see if your generation does any better with the planet."

Artemis clicked the briefcase’s lock snap precisely twenty times before striding into the restaurant.

"Believe me, we teenagers are not all the same," he said as he passed Adamsson. "And I intend to do quite a bit better."

There were more than a dozen tables inside the restaurant, all with chairs stacked on top, except for one, which had been dressed with a linen cloth and laden with bottled glacier water and spa bags for each of the five places.

Five, thought Artemis. A good number. Solid. Predictable. Four fives are twenty.

Artemis had decided lately that five was his number. Good things happened when five was in the mix. The logician in him knew that this was ridiculous, but he couldn’t ignore the fact that the tragedies in his life had occurred in years not divisible by five: his father had disappeared and been mutilated, his old friend Commander Julius Root of the LEP had been murdered by the notorious pixie Opal Koboi, both in years with no five. He was five feet five inches tall and weighed fifty-five kilos. If he touched something five times or a multiple of that, then that thing stayed reliable. A door would remain closed, for example, or a keepsake would protect that doorway, as it was supposed to.

Today the signs were good. He was fifteen years old. Three times five. And his hotel room in Reykjavík had been number forty-five. Even the Ski-Doo that had got him this far unscathed had a registration that was a multiple of five, and boasted a fifty cc engine to boot. All good. There were only four guests coming to the meeting, but including him that made five. So no need to panic.

A part of Artemis was horrified by his newfound superstition about numbers.

Get a grip on yourself. You are a Fowl. We do not rely on luck—abandon these ridiculous obsessions and compulsions.

Artemis clicked the case’s latch to appease the number gods—twenty times, four fives—and felt his heart slow down.

I will break my habits tomorrow, when this job is done.

He loitered at the maître d’s podium until Adamsson and his snow tractor had disappeared over a curved ridge of snow that could have been a whale’s spine, then waited a further minute until the vehicle’s rumbling had faded to an old smoker’s cough.

Very well. Time to do some business.

Artemis descended the five wooden steps to the main restaurant floor (excellent, good omen), threading a series of columns hung with replicas of the Stóra-Borg mask until he arrived at the head of the laid table. The seats were angled to face him, and a slight shimmer, like a heat haze, flickered over the tabletop.

"Good morning, friends," said Artemis in Gnommish, forcing himself to pronounce the fairy words in confident, almost jovial, tones. "Today’s the day we save the world."

The heat haze seemed more electrical now with crackles of neon-white interference running through it, and faces swimming in its depths like ghosts from a dream. The faces solidified and grew torsos and limbs. Small figures, like children, appeared. Like children, but not the same. These were representatives of the Fairy People, and among them perhaps the only friends Artemis had.

"Save the world?" said Captain Holly Short of the LEPrecon. "Same old Artemis Fowl, and I say that sarcastically, as saving the world is not like you at all."

Artemis knew he should smile, but he could not, so instead he found fault, something that would not seem out of character.

"You need a new shield amplifier, Foaly," he said to a centaur who was balanced awkwardly on a chair designed for humans. "I could see the shimmer from the front porch. Call yourself a technical expert? How old is the one you’re using?"

Foaly stamped a hoof, which was an irritated tic of his and the reason he never won at cards. "Nice to see you too, Mud Boy."

"How old?"

"I don’t know. Maybe four years."

"Four. There, you see. What sort of number is that?"

Foaly stuck out his bottom lip. "What sort of number? There are types now, Artemis? That amplifier is good for another hundred years. Maybe it could do with a little tuning, but that’s all."

Holly stood and walked lightly to the head of the table.

"Do you two have to start with the sparring right away? Isn’t that getting a little clichéd after all these years? You’re like a couple of mutts marking territory." She laid two slim fingers on Artemis’s forearm. "Lay off him, Artemis. You know how sensitive centaurs are."

Artemis could not meet her eyes. Inside his left snow boot, he counted off twenty toe-taps.

"Very well. Let’s change the subject."

"Please do," said the third fairy in the room. "We’ve come across from Russia for this, Fowl. So if the subject could be changed to what we came here to discuss . . ."

Commander Raine Vinyáya was obviously not happy being so far from her beloved Police Plaza. She had assumed command of LEPgeneral some years previously and prided herself on keeping a finger in every ongoing mission. "I have operations to get back to, Artemis. The pixies are rioting, calling for Opal Koboi’s release from prison, and the swear toad epidemic has flared up again. Please do us the courtesy of getting on with it."

Artemis nodded. Vinyáya was being openly antagonistic, and that was an emotion that could be trusted, unless of course it was a bluff and the commander was a secret fan of his, unless it was a double bluff and she really did feel antagonistic.

That sounds insane, Artemis realized. Even to me.

Though she was barely forty inches tall, Commander Vinyáya was a formidable presence and someone that Artemis never intended to underestimate. While the commander was almost four centuries old in fairy years, she was barely middle-aged, and in any terms she was a striking figure: lean and sallow, with the reactive feline pupils occasionally found in elfin eyes, but even that rarity was not her most distinctive physical characteristic. Raine Vinyáya had a mane of silver hair that seemed to trap any available light and send it rippling along her shoulders.

Artemis cleared his throat and switched his focus from numbers to the project, or, as he liked to think of it, THE PROJECT. In the end, when it came down to it, this was the only plan that mattered.

Holly punched his shoulder gently.

"You look pale. Even paler than usual. You okay, birthday boy?"

Artemis finally succeeded in meeting her eyes—one hazel, one blue—framed by a wide brow and a slash of auburn fringe, which Holly had grown out from her usual crew cut.

"Fifteen years old today," muttered Artemis. "Three fives. That’s a good thing."

Holly blinked.

Artemis Fowl muttering? And no mention of her new hairstyle— usually Artemis picked up on physical changes straight away.

"I . . . ah . . . I suppose so. Where’s Butler? Scouting the perimeter?"

"No. No, I sent him away. Juliet needed him."

"Nothing too serious?"

"Not serious but necessary. Family business. He trusts you to look after me."

Holly’s lips tightened as though she had tasted something sour.

"He trusts somebody else to shepherd his principal? Are you sure this is Butler we’re talking about?"

"Of course. And anyway, it’s better that he’s not here. Whenever my plans go awry, he’s close at hand. It’s vital, imperative, that this meeting go ahead and that nothing goes wrong."

Holly’s jaw actually dropped in shock. It was almost comical to see. If she understood Artemis correctly, he was blaming Butler for the failure of previous schemes. Butler? His staunchest ally?

"Good idea. Let’s go ahead, then. The four of us should get this show on the road."

This from Foaly, who had spoken the dreaded number with no thought for the consequences.

Four. Very bad number. The absolute worst. Chinese people hate the number four because it sounds like their word for death.

Almost worse than saying the number four was the fact that there were only four people in the room. Commander Trouble Kelp had apparently not been able to make it. In spite of their historic dislike for each other, Artemis wished the commander were here now.

"Where is Commander Kelp, Holly? I thought he was attending today. We could use the protection."

Holly stood at the table, ramrod straight in her blue jumpsuit, acorn cluster glittering on her chest.

"Trouble . . . Commander Kelp has enough to deal with in Police Plaza, but don’t worry. There’s an entire squadron of LEPtactical hovering overhead in a shielded shuttle. Not even a snow fox could make it in here without a singed tail."

Artemis shucked off his snow jacket and gloves. "Thank you, Captain. I am encouraged by your thoroughness. As a matter of interest, how many fairies are there in an LEP squadron? Exactly?"

"Fourteen," replied Holly, one jagged eyebrow raised.

"Fourteen. Hmm. That is not so . . ." Then a lightbulb moment. "And a pilot, I presume?"

"Fourteen including the pilot. That’s enough to take on any human squadron you care to throw at them."

For a moment it seemed as though Artemis Fowl would turn around and flee the meeting that he himself had requested. A tendon tugged at his neck, and one forefinger tapped the chair’s wooden headrest. Then Artemis swallowed and nodded with a nervousness that escaped from him like a canary from a cat’s mouth before being swallowed back down.

"Very well. Fourteen will have to do. Please, Holly, sit. Let me tell you about the project."

Holly backed up slowly, searching Artemis’s face for the cockiness that usually dwelled in his smirk lines. It was not there.

Whatever this project is, she thought, it’s big.

Artemis placed his case on the table, popped it open, and spun the lid to reveal a screen inside. For a moment his delight in gadgetry surfaced, and he even managed a faint grin in Foaly’s direction. The grin stretched his lips no more than an inch.

"Look. You’ll like this little box."

Foaly snickered. "Oh my stars! Is that . . . could that possibly be . . . a laptop? You have shamed us all with your brilliance, Arty."

The centaur’s sarcasm drew groans from everyone.

"What?" he protested. "It’s a laptop. Even humans can’t expect anyone to be impressed by a laptop."

"If I know Artemis," said Holly, "something impressive is about to happen. Am I right?"

"You may judge for yourself," said Artemis, pressing his thumb against a scanner on the case.

The scanner flickered, considering the proffered thumb, then flashed green, deciding to accept it. Nothing happened for a second or two, then a motor inside the case buzzed as though there were a small satisfied cat stretching in the case’s belly.

"Motor," said Foaly. "Big deal."

The lid’s reinforced metal corners suddenly detached, blasting away from the lid with a squirt of propellant, and suckered themselves to the ceiling. Simultaneously, the screen unfolded until it was more than three feet square with speaker bars along each edge.

"So it’s a big screen," Foaly said. "This is just grandstanding. All we needed were a few sets of V-goggles."

Artemis pressed another button on the case, and the metal corners suckered to the ceiling revealed themselves to be projectors, spewing forth streams of digi-data that coalesced in the center of the room to form a rotating model of the planet Earth. The screen displayed the Fowl Industries company logo surrounded by a number of files.

"It’s a holographic case," said Foaly, delighted to remain unimpressed. "We’ve had those for years."

"It is not a holographic case—the case is completely real," corrected Artemis. "But the images you will see are holographic. I have made a few upgrades to the LEP system. The case is synced with several satellites, and the onboard computers can construct real-time images of objects not inside the sensors’ range."

"I’ve got one of those at home," mumbled the centaur. "For my kids’ game console."

"And the system has smart interactive intelligence so I can construct or alter models by hand, so long as I’m wearing V-gloves," Artemis went on.

Foaly scowled. "Okay, Mud Boy. That is good." But he couldn’t help adding the P.S.: "For a human."

Vinyáya’s pupils contracted in the light from the projectors. "This is all very pretty, Fowl, but we still don’t know the point of this meeting."

Artemis stepped into the hologram and inserted his hands into two V-gloves floating over Australia. The gloves were slightly transparent with thick tubular digits and an unsophisticated polystyrene-look render. Once again the briefcase’s sensor flickered thoughtfully before deciding to accept Artemis’s hands. The gloves beeped softly and shrank to form a second skin around his fingers, each knuckle highlighted by a digi-marker.

"Earth," he began, ignoring the impulse to open his notes folder and count the words. He knew this lecture by heart.

"Our home. She feeds us, she shelters us. Her gravity prevents us from flying off into space and freezing, before thawing out again and being crisped by the sun, none of which really matters, as we would have long since asphyxiated." Artemis paused for laughter and was surprised when it did not arrive. "That was a little joke. I read in a presentation manual that a joke often serves to break the ice. And I actually worked icebreaking into the joke, so there were layers to my humor."

"That was a joke?" said Vinyáya. "I’ve had officers court-martialed for less."

"If I had some rotten fruit, I would throw it," added Foaly. "Why don’t you do the science and leave the jokes to people with experience?"

Artemis frowned, upset that he had ad-libbed, and now could not be certain how many words were in his presentation. If he finished on a multiple of four that was not also a multiple of five, that could be very bad. Perhaps he should start again? But that was cheating, and the number gods would simply add the two speeches together and he’d be no better off.

Complicated. So hard to keep track, even for me.

But he would continue because it was imperative that THE PROJECT be presented now, today, so that THE PRODUCT could go into fabrication immediately. So Artemis contained the uncertainty in his heart and launched into the presentation with gusto, barely stopping to draw breath, in case his courage deserted him.

"Man is the biggest threat to Earth. We gut the planet of its fossil fuels then turn those same fuels against the planet through global warming." Artemis pointed a V-finger at the enlarged screen, opening one video file after another, each one illustrating a point. "The world’s glaciers are losing as much as six feet of ice cover per annum, that’s half a million square miles in the Arctic Ocean alone in the past thirty years." Behind him the video files displayed some of the consequences of global warming.

"The world needs to be saved," said Artemis. "I realize now, finally, that I must be the one to save it. This is why I am a genius. My very raison d’être."

Vinyáya tapped the table with her index finger. "There is a lobby in Haven, which has quite a lot of support, that says roll on global warming. The humans will wipe themselves out and then we can take back the planet."

Artemis was ready for that one. "An obvious argument, Commander, but it’s not just the humans, is it?" He opened a few more video windows and the fairies watched scenes of scrawny polar bears stranded on ice floes, moose in Michigan being eaten alive by an increased tick population, and bleached coral reefs devoid of all life.

"It’s every living thing on or underneath this planet."

Foaly was actually quite annoyed by the presentation. "Do you think we haven’t thought about this, Mud Boy? Do you think that this particular problem has not been on the mind of every scientist in Haven and Atlantis? To be honest, I find this lecture patronizing."

Artemis shrugged. "How you feel is unimportant. How I feel is unimportant. Earth needs to be saved."

Holly sat up straight. "Don’t tell me you’ve found the answer."

"I think so."

Foaly snorted. "Really? Let me guess: wrap the icebergs, maybe? Or shoot refracting lenses into the atmosphere?

How about customized cloud cover? Am I getting warm?"

"We are all getting warm," said Artemis. "That is the problem." He picked up the Earth hologram with one hand and spun it like a basketball. "All of those solutions could work, with some modifications. But they require too much interstate cooperation, and, as we all know, human governments are not good at sharing their toys. Perhaps, in fifty years’ time, things might change, but by then it will be too late."

Commander Vinyáya had always prided herself on an ability to read a situation, and her instincts were loud in her ears like the roar of Pacific surf. This was a historic moment: the very air seemed electric.

"Go on, human," she said quietly, her words buoyed by authority. "Tell us."

Artemis used the V-gloves to highlight Earth’s glaciated areas and rearranged the ice mass into a square. "Covering glaciers is an excellent idea, but even if the topography were this simple—a flat square—it would take several armies half a century to get the job done."

"Oh, I don’t know," said Foaly. "Human loggers seem to be getting through the rain forests a lot quicker than that."

"Those on the fringes of the law move faster than those bound by it, which is where I come in."

Foaly crossed his front legs, which is not easy for a centaur in a chair. "Do tell. I am all ears."

"I shall," said Artemis. "And I would be grateful if you would stifle the usual expressions of horror and disbelief until I conclude. Your cries of astonishment every time I present an idea are most tiresome and they make it difficult to keep track of the word count."

"Oh my gods!" exclaimed Foaly. "Unbelievable."

Raine Vinyáya threw the centaur a warning look. "Stop acting the bull troll, Foaly. I’ve come a long way for this and my ears are very cold."

"Should I pinch one of the centaur’s nerve clusters to keep him quiet?" asked Holly with barely a grin. "I have studied centaur incapacitation, as well as human, if we happen to need it. I could knock out everybody here with one finger or a sturdy pencil."

Foaly was eighty percent sure that Holly was bluffing, but all the same he covered the ganglia over his ears with cupped fingers.

"Very well. I’ll keep quiet."

"Good. Proceed, Artemis."

"Thank you. But keep your sturdy pencil at the ready, Captain Short. I have a feeling that there could be some disbelief on the way."

Holly patted her pocket and winked. "2B hard graphite, nothing better for a quick organ rupture."

Holly was joking, but her heart wasn’t in it. Artemis felt that her comments were camouflage for whatever anxiety she was feeling. He rubbed his brow with a thumb and forefinger, using the gesture as cover to sneak a peek at his friend. Holly’s own brow was drawn in and her eyes narrow with worry.

She knows, realized Artemis, but what Holly knew, he could not say exactly. She knows that something is different, that the even numbers have turned against me. Two twos are four fairies spitting bad luck on my plans.

Then Artemis reviewed this last sentence, and for a second its lunacy was clear to him and he felt a fat coiled snake of panic heavy in his stomach.

Could I have a brain tumor? he wondered. That would explain the obsessions, the hallucinations, and the paranoia. Or is it simply obsessive-compulsive disorder? The great Artemis Fowl felled by a common ailment.

Artemis spared a moment to try an old hypnotherapist’s trick.

Picture yourself in a good place. Somewhere you were happy and safe.

Happy and safe? It had been a while.

Artemis allowed his mind to fly, and he found himself sitting on a small stool in his grandfather’s workshop. His grandfather looked a little sneakier than Artemis remembered, and he winked at his five-year-old grandson and said, Do you know how many legs are on that stool, Arty? Three. Only three, and that’s not a good number for you. Not at all. Three is nearly as bad as four, and we all know what four sounds like in Chinese, don’t we?

Artemis shuddered. This sickness was even corrupting his memories. He pressed the forefinger and thumb of his left hand together until the pads turned white. A trigger he’d taught himself to elicit calm when the number panic grew too strong. But the trigger was working less and less recently, or in this case not at all.

I am losing my composure, he thought with quiet desperation. This disease is winning.

Foaly cleared his throat, puncturing Artemis’s dream bubble. "Hello? Mud Boy? Important people waiting, get a move on."

And from Holly. "Are you okay, Artemis? Do you need to take a break?"

Artemis almost laughed. Take a break during a presentation? If I did that, I might as well go and stand beside someone wearing an i’m with crazy T-shirt.

"No. I’m fine. This is a big project, the biggest. I want to be sure that my presentation is perfect."

Foaly leaned forward until his already unsteady chair teetered dangerously. "You don’t look fine, Mud Boy. You look . . ." The centaur sucked his bottom lip, searching for the right word. "Beaten. Artemis, you look beaten."

Which was the best thing he could have possibly said.

Artemis drew himself up. "I think, Foaly, that perhaps you do not read human expressions well. Perhaps our faces are too short. I am not beaten by any manner or means. I am considering my every word."

"Maybe you should consider a little faster," advised Holly gently. "We are quite exposed here."

Artemis closed his eyes, collecting himself.

Vinyáya drummed the table with her fingers. "No more delays, human. I am beginning to suspect that you have involved us in one of your notorious plans."

"No. This is a genuine proposal. Please, hear me out."

"I’m trying to. I want to. I came a long way for that exact purpose, but all you do is show off with your suitcase."

Artemis raised his hands to shoulder level, the movement activating his V-gloves, and tapped the glacier.

"What we need to do is cover a significant area of the world’s glaciers with a reflective coating to slow down the melt. The coating would have to be thicker around the edges, where the ice is thawing more rapidly. Also it would be nice if we could plug the larger sinkholes."

"A lot of things would be nice in a perfect world," said Foaly, once again making smithereens of his promise to keep quiet. "Don’t you think your people would get a tad upset if little creatures popped out of the ground in spaceships and started carpeting Santa’s grotto with reflective foil?"

"They . . . we . . . would. And that is why this operation has to be carried out in secret."

"Secretly coat the world’s glaciers? You should have said."

"I just did say, and I thought we agreed that you would hold your peace. This constant haranguing is tiresome."

Holly winked at Foaly, twirling a pencil between her fingers.

"The problem with coating the icebergs has always been how to deploy the reflective blanket," continued Artemis. "It would seem that the only way to do it would be to roll the stuff out like carpet, either manually or from the rear of some kind of customized snow crawlers."

"Which is hardly a stealth operation," said Foaly.

"Exactly. But what if there were another way to lay down a reflective covering, a seemingly natural way."

"Work with nature?"

"Yes, Foaly. Nature is our model; it should always be."

The room seemed to be heating up as Artemis drew closer to his big reveal.

"Human scientists have been struggling to make their reflective foil thin enough to work with, yet strong enough to withstand the elements."

"Stupid."

"Misguided, centaur. Not stupid, surely. Your own files—"

"I considered the foil idea briefly. And how did you see my files?"

This was not a real question. Foaly had long since resigned himself to the fact that Artemis Fowl was at least as talented a hacker as he himself was.

"The basic idea is sound. Fabricate a reflective polymer."

Foaly chewed his knuckles. "Nature. Use nature."

"What is the most natural thing up here?" said Artemis, giving a little hint.

"Ice," said Holly. "Ice and . . ."

"Snow," whispered the centaur almost reverentially. "Of course. D’Arvit, why didn’t I . . . Snow, isn’t it?"

Artemis raised his V-gloved hands, and holographic snow rained upon them.

"Snow," he said, the blizzard swirling around him. "No one would be surprised by snow."

Foaly was on his feet. "Magnify," he ordered. "Magnify and enhance."

Artemis tapped a holographic flake, freezing it in midair. With a couple of pinches he enlarged the ersatz flake until its irregularity became clear. It was irregularly regular, a perfect circle.

"A nano-wafer," said Foaly, forgetting for once to hide how impressed he was. "An honest-to-gods nano-wafer. Smart?"

"Extremely," confirmed Artemis. "Smart enough to know which way is up when it hits the surface and configure itself to insulate the ice and reflect the sun."

"So we impregnate the cloud province?"

"Exactly, to its capacity."

Foaly clopped into the holographic weather. "Then when it ruptures, we have coverage."

"Incremental, true, but effective nonetheless."

"Mud Boy, I salute you."

Artemis smiled, his old self for a moment. "Well, it’s about time."

Vinyáya interrupted the science lovefest. "Let me see if I’ve got this straight: you shoot these wafers into the clouds and then they come down with the snow?"

"Precisely. We could shoot them directly on to the surface in dire cases, but I think for security it would be best to have the seeders hovering and shielded above the cloud cover."

"And you can do this?"

"We can do it. The Council would have to approve an entire fleet of modified shuttles, not to mention a monitoring station."

Holly thought of something. "These wafers don’t look much like snowflakes. Sooner or later some human with a microscope is going to notice the difference."

"Good point, Holly. Perhaps I shouldn’t lump you in with the rest of the LEP as regards intellect."

"Thanks, I think."

"When the wafers are discovered, as they inevitably will be, I will launch an Internet campaign that explains them away as a by-product from a chemical plant in Russia. I will also point out that for once our waste is actually helping the environment and volunteer to fund a program that will extend their coverage."

"Is there a pollution factor?" asked Vinyáya.

"Hardly. The wafers are entirely biodegradable."

Foaly was excited. He clip-clopped through the hologram, squinting at the enlarged wafer.

"It sounds good. But is it really? You hardly expect the People to stump up the massive and ongoing budget for such a project without proof, Artemis. For all we know, it’s one of your scams."

Artemis opened a file on the screen. "Here are my financial records. I know they are accurate, Foaly, because I found them on your server."

Foaly did not even bother blushing. "They look about right."

"I am prepared to invest everything I have in this project. That should keep five shuttles in the air for a couple of years. There will be profit on the back end, naturally, when the wafers go into production. I should recoup my investment then, perhaps even turn a respectable profit."

Foaly almost gagged. Artemis Fowl putting his own money into a project. Incredible.

"Of course, I hardly expect the People to take anything I say on face value. After all, I have been"—Artemis cleared his throat—"somewhat less than forthcoming with information in the past."

Vinyáya laughed humorlessly. "Less than forthcoming? I think you’re being a little gentle on yourself, for a kidnapper and extortionist, Artemis. Less than forthcoming?

Please. I find myself buying your pitch, but not everybody on the Council is as charitable toward you."

"I accept your criticism and your skepticism, which is why I have organized a demonstration."

"Excellent," said Foaly eagerly. "Of course there’s a demonstration. Why else would you have brought us here?"

"Why else indeed."

"More extortion and kidnapping?" suggested Vinyáya archly.

"That was a long time ago," blurted Holly, in a tone she would not usually take with a superior officer. "I mean . . . that was a long time ago . . . Commander. Artemis has been a good friend to the People."

Holly Short thought specifically of a close call during the goblin rebellion when Artemis Fowl’s actions had saved her life and many more besides. Vinyáya apparently remembered the goblin rebellion too. "Okay. Benefit-of-the-doubt time, Fowl. You’ve got twenty minutes to convince us."

Artemis patted his breast pocket five times to check on his phone.

"It shouldn’t take more than ten," he said.

Holly Short was a trained hostage negotiator, and found that in spite of the importance of the topic, she was rapidly shifting focus away from nano-wafers and toward Artemis Fowl’s mannerisms. Though she commented occasionally as the demonstration progressed, it was all she could do not to cradle Artemis’s face in her hands and ask him what was the matter.

I would have to stand on a chair to reach his face, Holly realized. My friend is almost a grown man now. A fully fledged human. Perhaps he is fighting his natural-born bloodthirsty desires and the conflict is driving him crazy.

Holly studied Artemis closely. He was pale, more so than usual, like a creature of the night. A snow wolf maybe. The sharp cheekbones and triangular length of his face added to this impression. And perhaps it was frost, but Holly thought she could see a streak of gray at his temples.

He seems old. Foaly was right: Artemis looks beaten.

Then there was the number thing. And the touching. Artemis’s fingers were never still. At first it seemed random, but on a hunch, Holly counted, and soon the pattern was clear. Fives or multiples of five.

D’Arvit, she thought. Atlantis Complex.

She ran a quick search on Wicca-pedia and came across a brief summary:

Atlantis Complex (at-lan-tis kom-pleks) is a psychosis common among guilt-ridden criminals, first diagnosed by Dr. E. Dypess of the Atlantis Brainology Clinic. Other symptoms include obsessive behavior, paranoia, delusions, and in extreme cases multiple personality disorder. Dr. E. Dypess is also known for his hit song, "I’m in Two Minds About You."

Holly thought that this last bit was possibly Wiccahumor.

Foaly had reached the same conclusion about Artemis, and said as much in a text message he buzzed over to Holly’s helmet, which sat on the table before her. Holly tapped her visor to reverse the readout then read the words.

Our boy is obsessing. Atlantis?

Holly called up a Gnommish keyboard on the visor and typed, slowly, so as not to attract attention.

Maybe. Fives? She sent the message. Yes, fives. Classic symptom.

Then seconds later.

A demonstration! Fab. I ♥ demonstrations.

Holly managed to keep a straight face in case Artemis happened to stop counting long enough to glance her way. Foaly could never concentrate on anything for very long, unless it was one of his beloved projects.

Must be a genius thing.

It seemed as though the Icelandic elements held their breath for Artemis’s demonstration. The dull air was cut with a haze that hung in sheets like rows of laundered gauze.

The fairy folk felt their suit thermocoils vibrate a little as they followed Artemis outside to the rear of the restaurant. The back of the Adam Adamsson establishment was even less impressive than the front. Whatever lackadaisical effort had been applied to making the Great Skua hospitable obviously did not extend to the back of the building. A whale mural, which looked like Adamsson had painted it himself using a live Arctic fox for a brush, stopped abruptly over the service entrance, decapitating an unfortunate humpback. And in several spots, large sections of plaster had split from the wall and been tramped into the mud and snow.

Artemis led the small group to a tarpaulin, which had been pegged over a large cube.

Foaly snorted. "Let me guess. Looks like a common garden tarpaulin, but is actually cam foil with rear projection set to look like tarp?"

Artemis took two more steps before answering, then nodded toward everyone to fix them in their places. A bead of sweat ran down his back, generated by the stress of losing his battle to obsessive behavior.

"No, Foaly. It looks like a tarpaulin because it is a tarpaulin," he said, then added, "Yes, a tarpaulin."

Foaly blinked. "Yes, a tarpaulin? Are we in one of your Gilbert and Sullivan operettas now?" He threw his head back and sang, "‘I am a centaur, yes, a centaur is what I am.’ It’s not like you to wax, Artemis."

"Foaly is singing," said Holly. "Surely that’s illegal?"

Vinyáya snapped her fingers. "Quiet, children. Contain your natural disruptive urges. I am most eager to see these nano-wafers in action before taking a shuttle closer to the warm core of our planet."

Artemis bowed slightly. "Thank you, Commander, most kind."

Five again, thought Holly. The evidence mounts.

Artemis Fowl twirled a hand at Holly Short as though introducing himself to a theater audience. "Captain, perhaps you would remove the cloth. You have an aptitude for taking things apart."

Holly was almost thrilled to have something to do. She would have preferred to have a serious talk with Artemis, but at least tackling a crate did not involve ingesting more scientific facts.

"Happy to," she said, and attacked the tarp as though it had insulted her grandmother. Suddenly there was a knuckle knife adorning the fingers of her right hand, and three judicious slices later, the tarp fluttered to the ground.

"You might as well do the crate while you are about it, Captain Short," said Artemis, wishing he could sneak in an extra word to bolster the sentence.

Immediately, Holly mounted the crate and apparently punched it into sections.

"Wow," exhaled Foaly. "That seemed excessively violent, even for you."

Holly descended to earth, barely making a footprint in the snow. "Nope. It’s more of a science. Cos tapa. The quick foot. An ancient martial art based on the movements of predatory animals."

"Look!" said Foaly, pointing with some urgency into the vast steel-gray gloom. "Someone who cares!"

Artemis was glad of the banter, as it distracted from his loosening grasp on the logical world. While the fairies enjoyed their customary back-and-forth, he allowed his spine to curve for a moment, let his shoulders dip, but someone noticed.

"Artemis?"

Holly, of course.

"Yes, Captain Short."

"‘Captain’? Are we strangers, Artemis?"

Artemis coughed into his hand. She was probing. He needed to ward off her attentions. Nothing to do but say the number aloud.

"Strangers? No. We’ve known each other for more than five years."

Holly took a step toward him, her eyes wide with concern behind the orange curve of visor.

"This five thing, Arty. I’m worried about that. You’re not yourself."

Artemis swept past her to the container that rested on the floor of the crate.

"Who else would I be?" he said brusquely, cutting short any possible discussion on the state of his mental health. He waved impatiently at the ice haze as though it were deliberately obstructing him, then pointed his mobile phone at the container, zapping the computerized locks. The container looked and sounded like a regular household refrigerator, squat, pearlescent, and humming.

"Just what they need in Iceland," muttered Foaly. "More ice makers."

"Ah, but a very special ice maker," said Artemis, opening the fridge door. "One that can save the glaciers."

"Does it make Popsicles too?" asked the centaur innocently, wishing his old buddy Mulch Diggums was there so they could high-five, a practice so puerile and outmoded that it would be sure to drive Artemis crazy, if he weren’t already crazy.

"You said this was a demonstration," snapped Vinyáya. "So demonstrate."

Artemis shot Foaly a poisonous look. "With great pleasure, Commander. Observe."

Inside the container sat a squat chrome contraption, which resembled a cross between a top-loader washing machine and a stubby cannon, apart from the jumble of wires and chips nestled under the bowl.

"The Ice Cube is not pretty, I grant you," said Artemis, priming the equipment with an infrared signal shot from the sensor on his phone. "But I thought better to get production moving along than spend another month tidying the chassis." They formed a ragged ring around the device, and Artemis could not help thinking that had a satellite been observing the group, they would have looked like children playing a game.

Vinyáya’s face was pale and her teeth chattered, though the temperature was barely below freezing. Chilly in human terms, a lot more uncomfortable for a fairy.

"Come on, human. Switch this Ice Cube thing on. Let’s get the dwarf on the mudslide."

A fairy expression that Artemis was not familiar with, but he could guess what it meant. He glanced at his phone.

"Surely, Commander. I will certainly launch the first pouch of nano-wafers just as soon as whatever unidentified craft is passing through the airspace moves on."

Holly consulted her visor readout communicator. "Nothing in the airspace, Mud Boy. Nothing but a shielded shuttle full of hurt for you, if you’re trying to pull some kind of trick."

Artemis could not stifle a groan. "No need for the rhetoric. I assure you, Captain, there is a ship descending through the atmosphere. My sensors are picking it up quite clearly."

Holly thrust her jaw forward. "Well, my sensors aren’t picking up a thing."

"Funny, because my sensors are your sensors," countered Artemis.

Foaly clopped a hoof, chipping the ice. "I knew it. Is nothing sacred?"

Artemis squared his shoulders. "Let’s stop pretending that we don’t spend half our time spying on each other. I read your files and you read the files I allow you to steal. There is a craft that seems to be heading straight for us, and maybe your sensors would spot it if you used some of the same filters I do."

Holly thought of something. "Remember Opal Koboi’s ship? The one completely built from stealth ore? Our pet geeks couldn’t detect that, but Artemis did."

Artemis arched his eyebrows as if to say Even the police officer gets it. "I simply looked for what should be there but wasn’t. Ambient gases, trace pollution, and such. Wherever I found an apparent vacuum I also found Opal. I have since applied the same technique to my general scans. I am surprised you haven’t learned that little trick, Consultant Foaly."

"It will take about two seconds to sync with our shuttle and run an ambience test."

Vinyáya scowled, and her annoyance seemed to ripple the air like a heatwave.

"Run it then, centaur."

Foaly activated the sensors in his gloves and screwed a yellow monocle over one eye. Thus wired, he performed a complicated series of blinks, winks, and gestures as he interfaced with a V-system invisible to all but him. To the casual observer it would seem as though the centaur had inhaled pepper while conducting an imaginary orchestra. It was not attractive, which was why most people tended to stick with hardwired hardware.

Twenty seconds more than two seconds later, Foaly’s exertions ceased suddenly and he rested palms on knees.

"Okay," he panted. "Firstly, I am nobody’s pet geek. And secondly, there may be a large unidentified space vehicle headed our way at high speed."

Holly instantly drew her weapon, as though she could gun down a spaceship that was already falling on them.

Artemis rushed toward his Ice Cube, arms outstretched maternally, then literally stopped in his tracks as suspicion filled his heart with heat.

"This is your ship, Foaly. Admit it."

"It’s not my ship," protested Foaly. "I don’t even have a ship. I come to work on a quadricycle."

Artemis fought the paranoia until his hands shook, but there seemed to be no other explanation for the arrival of a strange ship at this precise time.

"You’re trying to steal my invention. This is just like the time in London when you interfered in the C-Cube deal."

Holly kept her eyes on the skies, but spoke to her human friend.

"I saved Butler in London."

Artemis’s whole frame was shaking now. "Did you? Or did you turn him against me?" The words he spoke disgusted him, but they seemed to push through his lips like scarab beetles from the mouth of a mummy. "That’s when you made your alliance against me, wasn’t it? How much did you offer him?"

For a long foggy breath, Holly was speechless; then, "Offer him? Butler would never betray you. Never! How can you think that, Artemis?"

Artemis glared at his fingers as if he half hoped they would reach up and strangle him. "I know you’re behind this, Holly Short. You have never forgiven me for the kidnapping."

"You need help, Artemis," said Holly, tired of talking around the problem. "I think you may have a condition. It might be something called the Atlantis Complex."

Artemis stumbled backward, knocking against Foaly’s hindquarters. "I know," he said slowly, watching his breath take form before him. "Lately, nothing is clear. I see things, suspect everyone. Five. Five is everywhere."

"As if we would ever do anything to hurt you, Artemis," said Foaly, patting the hair Artemis had ruffled.

"I don’t know. Would you? Why wouldn’t you? I have the most important job on Earth, more important than yours."

Holly was calling in the cavalry.

"There’s a UC in the atmo," she called into her communicator, using that soldier shorthand that seemed more confusing than plain speaking. "Descend to my seven for evac. Stat."

A fairy shuttle fizzled into visibility twenty feet overhead. It appeared plate by plate from nose to stern, the soldiers inside visible for a brief moment before the hull solidified. The sight seemed to confuse Artemis even further.

"Is that how you’re going to take me? Scare me into voluntarily coming aboard, then steal my Ice Cube?"

"It’s always cubes with you," noted Foaly somewhat randomly. "What’s wrong with a nice sphere?"

"And you, centaur!" said Artemis, pointing an accusing finger. "Always in my system. Are you in my head too?"

Vinyáya had forgotten the cold. She shrugged off her heavy coat to gain some ease of movement.

"Captain Short. The crazed human is your contact— put him on a leash until we get out of here."

It was an unfortunate phrase to use.

"Put me on a leash? Is that what you’ve been doing all this time, Captain Short?"

Artemis was shivering now, as though a current had passed through his limbs.

"Artemis," said Holly urgently. "Wouldn’t you like to sleep for a while? Just lay your head down somewhere warm and sleep?"

The notion took hold in some corner of Artemis’s brain. "Yes. Sleep. Can you do that, Holly?"

Holly took a slow step forward. "Of course I can. Just a little mesmer is all it takes. You’ll wake up a new man."

Artemis’s eyes seemed to jellify. "A new man. But what about THE PROJECT?"

Easy now, thought Holly. Move in gently. "We can take care of it when you wake up." She slipped the thinnest wafer of magic into her upper registers; to Artemis it would sound like the tinkling of crystal bells on every consonant.

"Sleep," said Artemis softly, in case volume broke the word. "‘To sleep, perchance to dream.’"

"Quoting theater now?" said Foaly. "Do we really have the time?"

Holly hushed him with a glare, then took another step toward Artemis.

"Just a few hours. We can take you away from here, from whatever’s coming."

"Away from here," echoed the troubled boy.

"Then we can talk about the project."

The shuttle’s pilot fluffed his approach, carving a shallow trench in the surface with his rear stabilizer. The cacophonous splintering of sugar-glass-thin ice plates was enough to sharpen Artemis’s pupils.

"No!" he shouted, his voice shrill for once. "No magic. One two three four five. Stay where you are."

A second craft introduced itself to the melodrama, appearing suddenly in the distant skyscape as though crashing through from an alternate dimension. Huge and sleek like a spiraling ice-cream cone, trailing tethered boosters, one errant engine detaching and spinning off into the heavy gray clouds. For such a huge ship, it made very little noise.

Artemis was shocked by the sight. Aliens? was his first thought; then, Wait, not aliens. I have seen this before. A schematic at least.

Foaly was having the same thought. "You know, that looks familiar."

Entire sections of the giant ship were flickering out of sight as it cooled down from its steep atmospheric entry, or re-entry, as it turned out.

"That’s one from your space program," said Artemis accusingly.

"It’s possible," Foaly admitted, a guilty tinge blossoming on his rear cheeks, another reason he lost at poker. "Difficult to tell with all the erratic movements and so forth."

The LEP shuttle finally touched down, popping a hatch on its port side.

"Everyone in," ordered Vinyáya. "We need to put a little distance between us and that ship."

Foaly was three or four steps ahead. "No. No, this is one of ours. It shouldn’t be here, but we can still control it."

Holly snorted. "Sure. You’re doing a great job of it so far."

This comment was one more than the centaur could bear. He finally snapped, rearing majestically on his hind legs, then bringing his front hooves smashing down on the thin ice.

"Enough!" he roared. "There is a deep-space probe bearing down on us. And even if its nuclear generator does not explode, the impact blast wave alone will be enough to destroy everything in a fifteen-mile radius, so unless that shuttle of yours can travel to another dimension, boarding will be about as much use as you would be at a scientific convention."

Holly shrugged. "Fair enough. What do you suggest?"

"I suggest you shut up and let me deal with this problem."

The term probe generally brings to mind a small, spare craft, with perhaps a few sample jars in its hold and maybe a rack of super-efficient solar cells clamped to its back, but this machine was the polar opposite of such an image. It was huge and violent in its movement, jarring the air as it bludgeoned through, jumping in lurching leaps, dragging tethered engines behind like captured slaves.

"This thing," muttered Foaly, blinking to activate his monocle, "seemed friendlier when I designed it."

The soldiers were ordered to hold their positions, and the entire group could only watch as the giant ship bore down on them, screaming ever louder as its soundproofing waffling was scored. Atmospheric friction tore at the probe with jagged fingers, tearing huge octagonal plates from the hull. And all the while Foaly tried to gain control of it.

"What I’m doing is going through the shuttle’s antennae to get a good fix on the probe’s computer, see if I can find the malfunction and then maybe I can program in a nice friendly hover at thirty yards. A little more shield would be nice too."

"Less explaining," said Vinyáya through gritted teeth, "and more fixing."

Foaly kept up his line of drivel as he worked. "Come on, Commander. I know you military types thrive on these tense situations."

Throughout this exchange, Artemis stood still as a statue, aware that should he release the tremors, they would engulf him perhaps forever, and he would be lost.

What has happened? he wondered. Am I not Artemis Fowl?

Then he noticed something.

That ship has four engines. Four.

Death.

As if to confirm this thought, or indeed prompted by the thought, an orange bolt of energy appeared at the very tip of the descending craft, roiling nastily, looking very much like a bringer of death.

"Orange energy," noted Holly, shooting it with a finger gun. "You’re the explainer guy, Foaly, explain that."

"Worry not, lesser intellect," said Foaly, fingers a blur across his keyboard. "This ship is unarmed. It’s a scientific probe, for gods’ sake. That plasma bolt is an ice cutter, no more than that."

Artemis could hold in the tremors no longer, and they wracked his slim frame.

"Four engines," he said, teeth chattering. "F-f-four is death."

Vinyáya paused on her way to the shuttle gangway. She turned, a sheaf of steel hair escaping her hood. "Death? What’s he talking about?"

Before Holly could answer, the orange plasma beam bubbled merrily for a moment, then blasted directly into the shuttle’s engine.

"No, no, no," said Foaly, speaking as one would to an errant student. "That’s not right at all."

They watched horrified as the shuttle collapsed in a ball of turgid heat, rendering the metal shell transparent for just long enough to reveal the writhing marines inside.

Holly dropped low and dived toward Vinyáya, who was searching for a pathway through the flames to her men inside.

"Commander!"

Holly Short was fast, actually getting a grip on Vinyáya’s glove before one of the shuttle’s engines exploded and sent Holly pinwheeling through the superheated air onto the roof of the Great Skua restaurant. She flapped on the slate like a butterfly on a pin, staring stupidly at the glove in her hand. Her visor’s recognition software had locked onto Commander Vinyáya’s face, and a warning icon flashed gently.

Fatal injury to central nervous system, read a text on her screen. Holly knew that the computer was saying the same thing in her ear, but she couldn’t hear it. Please seal off the area and call emergency services.

Fatal injury? This couldn’t be happening again. In that nanosecond she flashed back to her former commander Julius Root’s death. Reality returned in a fiery heatwave, turning the ice to steam and popping the heat sensors in her suit.

Holly dug her fingers into the roof slush and hauled her upper body higher. The scene played around her like a silent movie, as her helmet noise filters had expanded and ruptured in the nanosecond between the flash and the bang.

Everyone in the shuttle was gone . . . that much was clear.

Don’t say gone, say dead—that’s what they are.

"Focus!" she said aloud, pounding a fist into the roof to emphasize each syllable. There would be time to grieve later; this crisis was not yet past.

Who is not dead?

She was not dead. Bleeding but alive, smoke drifting from the soles of her boots.

Vinyáya. Oh gods.

Forget Vinyáya for now.

And in a snowdrift underneath the eaves, she spotted Foaly’s legs doing an inverted gallop.

Is that funny now? Should I be laughing?

But where was Artemis? Suddenly Holly’s heartbeat was loud in her ears, and her blood roared like the surf.

Artemis.

Holly’s journey to a crouch was harder than it was supposed to be, and no sooner had her knees found purchase than her elbows gave way, and she ended up almost back where she’d started.

Artemis. Where are you?

Then from the corner of her eye, Holly saw her friend loping across the ice. Artemis was apparently unharmed, apart from a slight drag in his left leg. He was moving slowly but determinedly away from the burning shuttle. Away from the crank and blackening of contracting metal and the mercury drip of stealth ore finally reaching its melting point.

Where are you going?

Not running away, that was for sure. If anything, Artemis was moving directly into the path of the still-falling space probe.

Holly tried to scream a warning. She opened her mouth but could only cough smoke. She tasted smoke and battle.

"Artemis," she managed to hack after several attempts.

Artemis glanced up at her. "I know," he shouted, a ragged edge to his voice. "The sky appears to be falling, but it isn’t. None of this is real, the ship, those soldiers, none of it. I realize that now. I’ve been . . . I’ve been having delusions, you see."

"Get clear, Artemis," cried Holly, her voice not her own, feeling like her brain was sending signals to someone else’s mouth. "That ship is real. It will crush you."

"No it won’t, you’ll see." Artemis was actually smiling benignly. "Delusional disorder, that’s all this craft is. I simply constructed this vision from an old memory, one of Foaly’s blueprints I sneaked a look at. I need to face my dementia. Once I can prove to myself that this is all in my head, then I can keep it there."

Holly crawled across the roof, feeling her insides buzz as magic went to work on her organs. Strength was returning, but slowly, and her legs felt like lead pipes. "Listen to me, Artemis. Trust me."

"No," Artemis barked. "I don’t trust any of you. Not Butler, not even my own mother." Artemis hunched his shoulders. "I don’t know what to believe, or who to trust. But I do know that there cannot be a space probe crash-landing here at this precise moment. The odds against it are just too astronomical. My mind is playing tricks on me, and I have to show it who’s boss."

Holly registered about half of that speech, but she’d heard enough to realize that Artemis was referring to his own mind in the third person, which was a warning sign no matter which head doctor’s theories you subscribed to.

The spaceship continued to bear down on them, unaffected by Artemis’s lack of belief in its existence, shunting shock waves before it. For a memory, it certainly seemed very real, each panel richly textured by the tribulations of space travel. Long jagged striations were etched into the nose cone like scars from lightning bolts, and buckshot dents peppered the fuselage. A ragged semicircular chunk was missing from one of the three fins, as though a deep-space creature had taken a bite from the passing craft, and strangely colored lichen was crayoned in the square patch vacated by a hull plate.

Even Artemis had to admit it. "That doesn’t seem particularly ethereal. I must have a more vivid imagination than I had thought."

Two of the ship’s silencers blew out in rapid succession, and engine roar filled the bowl of gray sky.

Artemis pointed a rigid finger at the craft. "You are not real!" he shouted, though even he did not hear the words. The ship was low enough now for Artemis to read the message written in several scripts and pictograms across the nose cone.

"‘I come in peace,’" he mumbled, and thought: Four words. Death.

Holly was thinking too, images of tragedy and destruction flashing past like the lights of a train carriage, but there was one other notion holding steady through the chaos.

I can’t reach him from this rooftop. Artemis is going to die, and there’s nothing I can do but watch.

And then a hysterical afterthought.

Butler is going to kill me.





CHAPTER 2

THE JADE PRINCESS

AND CRAZY BEAR

Cancún, Mexico; The Night Before

The man in the rental Fiat 500 swore loudly as his broad foot mashed the tiny brake and accelerator pedals, stalling the tiny car for the umpteenth time. It might be a little easier to drive this miniature vehicle if I could sit in the backseat so my knees were not jammed under my chin, the man reasoned. And with that thought he pulled over sharply onto the verge bordering Cancún’s spectacular lagoon. In the reflected light of a million twinkling luxury-suite balcony lamps, he performed an act of vandalism on the Fiat that would definitely cost him his deposit and possibly send him rocketing to number one on the Hertz blacklist.

"Better," grunted the man, and tossed the driver’s seat down the verge.

Hertz only has itself to blame, he thought, on a reasoning roll. This is what happens when you insist on giving a toy car to a man of my proportions. It’s like trying to load fifty-caliber rounds into a Derringer boot gun. Ridiculous.

He crammed himself into the vehicle and, navigating from the backseat, pulled into the flow of cars, which even at close to midnight were packed together tighter than train carriages.

I’m coming, Juliet, he thought, squeezing the steering wheel as though it were a threat to his little sister somehow. I’m on my way.

The driver of this carelessly remodeled Fiat was of course Butler, Artemis Fowl’s bodyguard, though he had not always been known by that name. In the course of his career as a soldier of fortune, Butler had adopted many a nom de guerre to protect his family from recriminations. A band of Somali pirates knew him as Gentleman George, he had for a time hired himself out in Saudi Arabia under the name Captain Steele (Artemis had later accused him of having a touch of the screeching melodramas), and for two years a Peruvian tribe, the Isconahua, knew the mysterious giant who protected their village from an aggressive logging corporation only as El Fantasma de la Selva, the ghost of the jungle. Of course, since becoming Artemis Fowl’s bodyguard, there was no more time for side projects.

Butler had traveled to Mexico at Artemis’s insistence, though insistence had hardly been necessary once Butler had read the message on his principal’s smartphone. They had been in the middle of a mixed martial-arts session earlier in the day when the phone rang. A polyphonic version of Morricone’s "Miserere," which signified the arrival of a message.

"No phones in the dojo, Artemis," Butler had rumbled. "You know the rules."

Artemis had delivered one more blow to the hand pad, a left jab that had little power and less accuracy, but at least his shots were landing on the pad now. Until recently, Artemis’s punches were so wide of the mark that in the event of actual combat a passerby would be in more danger than any assailant.

"I know the rules, Butler," said Artemis, taking several breaths to get the sentence out. "The phone is definitely off. I checked it five times."

Butler pulled off a pad, which in theory protected the wearer’s hand from punches, but in this case protected Artemis’s knuckles from Butler’s spadelike palm. "The phone is off, and yet it rings."

Artemis trapped a glove between his knees and tugged his hand free. "It’s set to emergency breakthrough. It would be irresponsible of me not to check it."

"Your speech seems strange," noted Butler. "Stilted somehow . . . Are you counting your words?"

"That is patently ridiculous . . . actually," said Artemis, coloring. "I am simply choosing carefully." He hurried to the phone, which was one of his own design with a dedicated operating platform based on an amalgamation of human and fairy technology. "The message is from Juliet," he said, consulting the three-inch touch screen.

Butler’s pique immediately evaporated. "Juliet sending an emergency message? What does it say?"

Artemis wordlessly handed over the phone, which seemed to shrink as Butler’s massive hand enfolded it.

The message was short and urgent. Five words only.

In trouble, Domovoi. Come alone.

Butler’s fingers squeezed the phone until its casing cracked. The first names of all Blue Diamond bodyguards were closely guarded secrets, and the mere fact that Juliet had invoked his name to summon him was an indicator of how much trouble she was in.

"Naturally I’m coming with you," said Artemis briskly. "My phone can trace that call to the nearest square centimeter and we can be anywhere in the world in just less than a day."

Butler’s features belied the struggle between big brother and detached professional that raged inside him.

Finally the professional got the upper hand. "No, Artemis. I cannot put you in harm’s way."

"But . . ."

"No. I must go, but you will return to school. If Juliet is in trouble, I need to move quickly, and caring for you will simply double my responsibility. Juliet knows how seriously I take my job, and she would never ask me to come alone unless the situation was dangerous."

Artemis coughed. "It’s probably not too dangerous. Perhaps Juliet is more inconvenienced than in any actual peril. But in any case you should go as soon as . . ."

He plucked the phone from Butler’s grasp and tapped the screen.

"Cancún, Mexico, that’s your destination."

Butler nodded. It made sense. Juliet was currently with a Mexican wrestling troupe, building a rep for her character, the Jade Princess, and praying for that magic call from the World Wrestling Entertainment group.

"Cancún," he repeated. "I’ve never been. There’s not much call for people like me there. Too safe."

"The jet is at your disposal, naturally," said Artemis, who then frowned, unhappy with the sentence. "Hopefully this entire thing is nothing but a . . . goose chase."

Butler glanced sharply at his young charge. Something was wrong with the boy, he felt sure of it, but at the moment there was only room for Juliet in the concern for others corner of his brain.

"This is no goose chase," he said softly, then with considerably more force: "And whoever caused this message to be sent will regret it." To drive this point home, Butler allowed his big-brother side to surface for a moment and punched a training mannequin so hard that its wooden head flew off and spun on the practice mat like a top.

Artemis picked up the head and tapped the crown half a dozen times, or thereabouts.

"I imagine they already do," he said, his voice the rustle of dry leaves.

So now Butler was making agonizingly slow progress through the late-night Cancún traffic, head and shoulders squashed flat against the Fiat’s roof. He had neglected to reserve a car, and so had been forced to accept whatever the Hertz lady had left in the lot. A Fiat 500. Très cool if you were a single teen on the way to the spa, but not so suitable for a two-hundred-twenty-pound hulk.

An unarmed two-hundred-twenty-pound hulk, Butler realized. Generally the bodyguard managed to bring a few weapons with him to whatever party he was about to break up, but in this case public transport was actually quicker than the Fowl jet, so Butler had been forced to leave his arsenal at home, even his beloved Sig Sauer, which had almost drawn a tear. He had connected through Atlanta, and the marines at customs would not have taken kindly to anyone smuggling hardware into the U.S., especially someone who looked like he could probably breach the White House with a few belts of ammunition.

Butler had been at something of a loose end since leaving Artemis’s side. For more than fifteen years he had spent the vast bulk of his time engaged in Artemis-related activities. Finding himself virtually alone in business class on a transatlantic flight with several hours of enforced downtime, he could not sleep for worrying about his sister, and so his mind naturally drifted to Artemis.

His charge had changed recently—there was no doubt about it. Since his return from saving endangered species in Morocco last year, there had been a definite mood swing. Artemis seemed less open than usual, and usually he was about as open as a Swiss vault at night. Also, Butler had noticed that Artemis seemed obsessed with the placement of objects, something Butler himself was very alert to, as he was trained to see everything in a building as a potential weapon or shrapnel fragment. Often Artemis would enter a room that his bodyguard had already swept and cleared and start moving things back to where they had been. And Artemis’s speech seemed off somehow. Artemis generally spoke in sentences that were almost poetic, but lately he seemed to care less about what he said than how many words it took to say it.

As the Boeing began its descent into Atlanta, Butler decided that he would go to Artemis Senior as soon as he made it back to Fowl Manor and make a clean breast of his concerns. While it was undeniably his job to protect Artemis from danger, it was difficult to do that when the danger came from Artemis himself.

I have protected Artemis from trolls, goblins, demons, dwarf gas, and even humans, but I cannot guarantee that my skill set will save him from his own mind. Which makes it imperative that I find Juliet and bring her home as soon as possible.

Butler eventually grew tired of the traffic’s crawl down Cancún’s main strip and decided that he would make better time on foot. He pulled over sharply into a taxi lane and, ignoring the indignant cries of the drivers, set off past the rows of five-star hotels at a brisk jog.

Locating Juliet would not be difficult: her face was splashed all over dozens of downtown banners.

LUCHASLAM! FOR ONE WEEK ONLY AT THE GRAND THEATER.

Butler did not much care for Juliet’s picture on the banners. The artist had twisted her pretty face to make his sister seem more aggressive, and her stance was obviously just for show. It might look good on a poster, but it was all wrong, and left her wide open for a hook to the kidneys.

Juliet would never approach an adversary in that way.

His sister was the best natural fighter he had ever seen, and too proud to ask for help unless there was no other option available to her, which was why her message was so worrying.

Butler jogged two miles without breaking a sweat, weaving through throngs of revelers, until he arrived at the glass-and-stucco façade of the Grand Theater. A dozen or so red-jacketed doormen clustered around the automatic doors, nodding and smiling at the crowd hurrying in for the main event.

Around the back, he decided. The story of my life.

Butler skirted the building, thinking that it would be nice, just once, to go in the front door. Maybe he would in another lifetime, when he got too old for this business.

How old do I have to be? he wondered. Come to think of it, with all the time travel and fairy healings, I’m not even sure how old I actually am anymore.

As soon as Butler reached the back door, he put all other thoughts from his mind, apart from the job at hand. Get to Juliet, find out what trouble she was in, and extricate her with minimal collateral damage. There were still ten minutes before the show was scheduled to start, so with a little luck he could nab his sister before the room got too crowded.

The only security on the back door was a single surveillance camera. Luckily, the Grand was a straight theater and not the convention room of a resort hotel, or there would have been a cluster of pools at the back door, along with crowds of tourists, a salsa band, and possibly half a dozen undercover private cops. As it was, Butler slid unnoticed into the theater and simply waved at the camera on the way in, effectively covering his face.

Butler did not meet a shred of opposition on his way through the theater’s backstage area. He passed a couple of costumed wrestlers sharing an electrolytic drink, but they barely spared him a glance, probably assuming he was one of them. Big and dumb, by the look of him—the bad guy.

Like most theaters, the Grand had miles of corridors and back passages that had not shown up on the blueprints Butler had downloaded on his smartphone from Artemis’s interpedia, which had a dedicated blueprint site containing any plans that had ever been uploaded and quite a few that Artemis had stolen and uploaded himself. After several wrong turns, even Butler’s excellent sense of direction was failing him, and the big bodyguard was tempted to simply punch through walls and create the shortest route to where he wanted to go: the performers’ dressing room.

Butler finally arrived at the dressing room door just in time to see the tail end of the wrestling squad winding their way through to the stage, looking like sections of a Chinese dragon in all their Lycra and silk. After the last wrestler slipped through, a barrier of meat and muscle in the shape of two enormous bouncers closed across the backstage doors.

I could take them, thought Butler. That would not be a problem, but it would only leave me seconds to find Juliet and get her out of here, and, knowing my sister, she will want to conduct a complicated and ultimately meaningless conversation before she’s ready to go. I need to think like Artemis, like the Artemis of old, and play this calmly. Blundering in is likely to get both of us killed.

Butler heard the howls and whoops of the crowd as the wrestlers entered. The noise was muffled through the double doors, but clearer from the dressing room. He poked his head inside and saw a monitor bracketed to the wall, displaying the action in the ring. Convenient.

Butler stepped close to the screen and searched for his sister. There she was, at the corner of the ring, performing some ostentatious warm-ups that were more for show than actual effect. If Butler could have seen his own normally taciturn features at that moment, he would have been surprised by the fond, almost sleepy, smile that lingered on his face.

It’s been too long since I’ve seen you, little sister.

Juliet did not seem to be in any immediate danger; in fact, she appeared to be relishing the crowd’s attention, raising her arms for more applause and whipping the jade ring on her ponytail around in figures of eight. The crowd loved her too. Several young men waved banners bearing Juliet’s image, and a few were bold enough to shower her with confetti hearts. Butler frowned. He would definitely be keeping an eye on those particular young gentlemen.

Butler allowed himself to relax a little, a loosening of the fingers, which perhaps five people in the world would have noticed. He was still on high alert, but could admit to himself now that his darkest fear had always been that he would arrive too late.

Juliet is alive. And healthy. Whatever the problem is, we can solve it between us.

He decided then that the most prudent course of action would be to observe from this vantage point. He had a clear view of the wrestling ring, and, if necessary, he could be by his sister’s side in seconds.

The opening match was started by an old-fashioned ringside bell, and Juliet leaped high, landing catlike on the top rope.

"Princesa! Princesa!" chanted the audience.

A favorite with the crowd, thought Butler. Of course she is.

Juliet’s opponent was obviously the villain of the piece. A humongous woman with buzz-cut bleached hair and a costume of bloodred Lycra.

"Boo!" called the crowd.

Like most wrestlers on the luchador circuit, the huge newcomer wore a mask that covered her eyes and nose and was tied at the back with some nasty-looking barbed wire, which Butler suspected was actually plastic.

Juliet seemed like a doll in comparison, apparently outmatched. A little of the cockiness drained from her masked face, and she appealed to her corner for assistance, but was met with shrugged shoulders from a stereotypical flat-capped trainer who could have been recruited from the set of a wrestling movie. This match is all scripted, Butler realized. There’s no danger here.

He pulled a chair up to the screen and settled to watch his sister.

The first round was gentle enough on Butler’s nerves. Then, in the second round, Juliet strayed a little close to her opponent and was pounced on with surprising speed.

"Oooh," cried most of the crowd. "Snap her in two, Samsonetta!" called a few less charitable observers.

Samsonetta, thought Butler. It suits her.

He was not worried at this point. There were at least a dozen ways for Juliet to break Samsonetta’s hold, as far as he could see. Most she could do without even using her hands. One would be theoretically possible by combining a fake sneeze with a sudden drop.

Butler started to worry when he noticed a dozen men in trench coats sidling along the far wall toward the ring.

Trench coats? In Cancún? Why would anyone wear a trench coat in Mexico unless they were concealing something?

The picture was too grainy for Butler to garner much detail, but there was something about these guys and the way they moved. Purposeful, devious, sticking to the shadows.

I’ve got time, Butler reasoned, already putting together his plan. This could be nothing, but it could be everything. I can’t take chances with Juliet’s life at stake.

He glanced around the dressing room to see if there was anything he could use as a weapon. No such luck. All he could find were a couple of chairs, plenty of glitter and mascara, and a barrel of old costumes.

I won’t be needing the glitter or mascara, thought Butler, reaching into the costume barrel.

Juliet Butler was feeling a little claustrophobic in the arms of her opponent.

"Come on, Sam," she hissed. "You’re suffocating me."

Samsonetta stamped flat-footed on the canvas, sending hollow booms bouncing around the auditorium, while at the same time making a show of squeezing Juliet’s neck.

"That’s the idea, Jules," she whispered, her Stockholm accent stretching the vowels. "I whip up the crowd, remember? And then you take me down."

Juliet turned her face to the three-thousand-strong crowd, delivering a dramatic howl of pain.

"Kill her!" screamed the nice ones.

"Kill her and then snap her in two!" screamed the not-so-nice ones.

"Kill her, snap her in two, and stamp on the pieces!" howled the downright nasty audience members, usually easily identifiable by the violent slogans on their T-shirts, and the drooling.

"Careful, Sam. You’re moving my mask."

"And such a pretty mask too."

Juliet’s entire outfit was pretty enough to make her a crowd favorite. A jade skintight leotard, and a small eye mask, which was actually a gel-pack covered with glitter.

If I have to wear a mask, Juliet had reasoned, it might as well be good for my skin.

They prepared for Samsonetta’s trademark takedown: an overhead drop, helped along by the power of her amazing arms. Usually if her opponents had so much as a spark of energy left in them after that maneuver, Sam simply fell on them, and that generally did the trick. But since Juliet was the crowd’s favorite, the move was not planned to go as usual. A wrestling audience liked to see their hero as far down as possible without being out.

Sam advertised the move by asking the crowd if they wanted the body slam.

"Do you vant it?" she shouted, playing up her accent.

"Yes!" they howled, beating the air with their fists.

"The body slam?"

"Slam!" they chanted. "Slam! Slam!"

A few chanted other rougher slogans, but security soon zoned in on them.

"You vant a slam! I vill slam!" Generally Samsonetta would have said I shall slam! But Max, the promoter/ manager of LuchaSlam, liked her to use ‘v’ instead of ‘w’ wherever possible, as for some reason it drove the crowd crazy.

And so she bent backward and hurled the unfortunate Jade Princess toward the deck, and that would have been the end of it had not the Jade Princess somehow twirled in midair to land on her toes and fingertips, and that wasn’t even the impressive part. The impressive part was springing back up again and whipping her head around so the jade ring woven into her blond ponytail whacked Samsonetta in the jaw, landing the giantess flat on her back.

Samsonetta whined and complained, rubbed her jaw to redden it, and rolled like a walrus on a hot rock.

She was quite a performer, and for a moment Juliet worried that the jade ring had really hurt her, but then Sam threw her a secret wink, and she knew that they were still playacting.

"Have you had enough, Samsonetta?" asked Juliet, springing nimbly to the top rope. "Would you like some more?"

"No," blubbed her supposed opponent, then decided to sneak another ‘v’ in for Max. "I vant no more."

Juliet turned to the audience. "Should I give her some more?"

Oh no, said an imaginary audience. No more, that would be barbaric.

But the real audience said things like:

"Kill her!"

"Take her downtown!" (Whatever that meant—they were already downtown.)

"Show her the pain!" The pain being obviously more excruciating than just plain old pain.

I love these people, thought Juliet, and launched herself off the top rope for the coup de grâce.

It would have been a thing of beauty. A lovely double flip rounded off with a nice oooof-inducing elbow to the stomach, but someone came out of the shadows and snatched Juliet from the air, tossing her roughly into the corner of the ring. Several other silent, muscled attackers piled on top of Juliet until all that was visible of the girl was one green-clad leg.

In the shadows, where he was watching behind one of the lighting rigs, Butler felt a sour ball of fear drop to the pit of his stomach, and muttered: "That’s my cue."

Which sounded an awful lot more flippant than he felt.

The crowd was still applauding the unexpected arrival of the Ninja Squad luchadores in their trademark black costumes disguised by trench coats, who had doubtless shown up to avenge their master’s recent defeat at the hands and feet of the Jade Princess at QuadroSlam in Mexico City. Surprise guests often showed up unadvertised at the slams, but the entire Ninja Squad was an unexpected bonus.

The ninjas were a writhing mass of pumping limbs, each member desperate to land a blow on the Jade Princess, and there was nothing the slight girl could do but lie there and absorb it.

Butler entered the ring quietly. The element of surprise was often the difference between victory and defeat in against-the-odds situations, though if Butler were honest with himself he would admit that secretly he usually felt that the odds were in his favor, even in this case, where he was outnumbered twelve to one. Twelve to two if Juliet were still conscious, which was six to one, which was virtually even-stevens. A moment earlier Butler had felt a little self-conscious in the borrowed costume of fake bearskin leotard and mask, but now all embarrassment was forgotten as he clicked his brain into that cold space he called combat mode.

These people are hurting my sister, he thought as a hot trickle of anger cracked his icy shell of professionalism.

Time to go to work.

With a growl that was totally in keeping with his Crazy Bear costume, Butler rolled into the ring under the bottom rope, stepped briskly across the canvas, and began laying into the ninjas with blatant economy of movement. There was no threatening monologue, not even a simple foot stamp to herald his arrival, which was hardly courteous. He simply dismantled the ninjas as though they were a Jenga stack.

There followed thirty seconds of flailing limbs and high-pitched screaming that would have done hysterical teenagers at a boy-band concert proud, and then, finally, Juliet was uncovered.

Butler saw that his sister was intact, and smiled behind the mask.

"Hello there. I made it."

And in response to her life being saved, Juliet jammed four rigid fingers into his solar plexus, driving the air from his body.

"Aarrrk," he grunted; then, "Whuueeeech." Which was supposed to be What are you doing?

A couple of the ninjas had recovered and tried a few of their stylized moves on their attacker, only to be rewarded with casual openhanded slaps.

"Watch it," snapped Butler, drawing breath once more and shooting the ninjas the evil eye. "I need a minute of family time."

Something flickered in the corner of Butler’s vision, moving with blurred, jittery speed. His left hand automatically shot out to grab the jade ring that was braided into his sister’s blond ponytail.

"Wow," said Juliet. "No one’s ever done that before."

"Really?" said Butler, dropping the jade ring. "No one?"

Juliet’s eyes widened behind her mask. "No one except . . . Brother, is that you?"

Before Butler could reply, Juliet sidestepped and pole-axed with her forearm a ninja who may have been sneaking up on them, or may in fact have been trying to escape from what had become the ring of real pain as opposed to the ring of convincingly faked agony.

"Didn’t you guys hear this man? We need family time!" The ninjas shrank back against the rope, whimpering.

Even Samsonetta seemed a little concerned.

"Brother, I’m in the middle of a grudge match. What are you doing here?" asked Juliet.

It might have taken many people a few more minutes before they realized something was amiss, but not Butler. Years of protecting Artemis Fowl had taught him to catch the penny before it dropped.

"Obviously you didn’t send for me. We need to leave so I can figure things out."

Juliet’s bottom lip hung sulkily, transporting Butler ten years into the past, when he’d forbidden her to shave her head.

"I can’t just go. I’ve got fans expecting me to do cartwheels and give you the signature move."

It was true. The Jade Princess’s camp was bouncing on their benches, baying for Crazy Bear’s blood.

"If I just leave, there could be a riot."

Butler glanced up at the giant screen suspended from the ceiling and saw a close-up of his own head looking up at the screen, which was enough to give anyone a headache.

A voice boomed from four old-fashioned conical speakers wired to the corners of the overhead screen.

"Who is this guy, folks? Is it Crazy Bear come to take down his old enemy, the Jade Princess?"

Juliet stuck out her chin. "Max. Always looking for the angle."

"Juliet, we don’t have time for this."

"Whoever it is," continued Max, "we’re not just going to let him walk out of here with our princess, are we, amigos?"

Judging by the loud and sustained reaction, the paying customers did not take to the idea of Crazy Bear simply walking out with the princess. The language was florid, and Butler could have sworn that the walls were shaking slightly.

Butler took three quick steps to the side of the ring and wagged his finger at a little man holding a microphone.

He was surprised when the little man jumped up on the table, stamped on his own hat, then shouted into the mike.

"You’re threatening me, Crazy Bear? After all I’ve done for you? When those forest rangers found you living with the grizzlies, who took you in? Max Schetlin, that’s who. And this is how you repay me?"

Butler tuned out the rant. "Okay, Juliet. We need to get out of here now. We do not have time for this.

Someone wanted me out of the way. Possibly someone who has a grudge against Artemis."

"You need to be an awful lot more specific than that, brother. Artemis has more enemies than you, and you have quite a few at the moment."

It was true. The crowd was turning ugly—a lot of it was fake ugly, but Butler’s keen eye spotted scores of wrestling fans in the front rows who looked ready to storm the ring.

I need to make a statement, he thought. Show these people who’s boss.

"Outside the ring, Jules. Right now."

Juliet did what she was told without complaint. Butler had that look on his face. The last time she had seen that look, her brother had punched his way through the hull of a Somali pirate’s stolen yacht, sinking the vessel in the Gulf of Aden.

"Don’t hurt Samsonetta," she ordered. "We’re friends."

Butler shook his head in disapproval. "Friends? I knew you two were faking."

Samsonetta and the ninjas were busy throwing shapes in the far corner of the ring. They stamped, punched, and threatened without actually attacking.

When Juliet was safely outside the ropes, Butler turned to his own corner and threw his shoulder into the pad covering the post. The impact rattled the post in its housing.

"Crazy Bear really is crazy," crowed Max. "He’s beating up the ring. Are you going to stand for that, ninjas? This man is defiling the very symbol of our sporting heritage."

Apparently the Ninja Squad was prepared to accept a little defiling of their symbol if it meant not being attacked by the man mountain who had taken their pyramid apart with no more effort than a child knocking down a house of cards.

Butler hit the post again, this time smashing it right out of its socket. He hefted the metal pole, stepped underneath the ropes, and began to twist the ring in on itself.

This move was so unprecedented that it was several seconds before anyone could appreciate what they were seeing. In years to come the maneuver would become known as the wringer and would elevate the real Crazy Bear, who was passed out drunk in the back alley, to the status of luchador superstar.

Even Max Schetlin’s tirade dried up as his brain tried to process what was actually going on.

Butler took advantage of the stunned stillness to quickly spin the corner post half a dozen times, popping another two supports from their housings.

This is not as difficult as it looks, mused Butler, catching sight of himself on the giant screen. This entire ring is little more than an inverted tent. A well-fed teenager could pull it down.

He gathered the three posts in his arms, twirling them deftly, drawing the ring tighter and tighter.

A couple of the ninjas had enough presence of mind to skip out while they could, but most stood slack-jawed, and a couple who believed themselves to be dreaming sat down and closed their eyes.

Butler nodded at Samsonetta. "Out you go, miss."

Samsonetta actually curtsied, which was totally out of character, and ducked under the rope, along with one ninja who was sharp enough to recognize a reprieve when he saw one. The rest of the crew was pressed closer together as Butler wound the rope tight. Every twist brought groans from the coils of old rope and from the people trapped inside. The crowd was beginning to realize what was happening, and they began to cheer with every twist. Several were gleefully calling for Butler to squeeze the air from the ninjas’ lungs, but the bodyguard was content merely to crush them together like passengers on the London Tube at rush hour. And once they were powerless to move, he shuffled them to the side of the ring and planted the pole back in its housing.

"I’m going now," he said. "And I advise you all to stay put until I am out of the country, at the very least, because if you don’t, I will be very unhappy."

Butler did not have the magical power of the mesmer, but his voice was extremely persuasive nevertheless.

"Okay, Bear, take it easy," said the only ninja sporting a white head scarf, possibly the leader. "You’re straying way off script. Max is going to go nuts."

"You let me worry about Max," Butler advised. "You worry about me worrying about you."

The ninja’s frown was obvious through the folds of his scarf. "What? Who should I worry about?"

Butler ground his teeth. Dialoguing was not as easy as the movies would have a person believe.

"Just don’t move until I’m gone. Got it?"

"Yep. You should have said that."

"I know."

From a bodyguard’s perspective, there were so many things wrong with this situation that Butler almost despaired. He turned to his sister.

"Enough of this. I have to go somewhere and think. Somewhere with no Lycra."

"Okay, Dom. Follow me."

Butler stepped down from the platform. "If you could stop bandying my name about. It’s supposed to be a secret."

"Not from me. I’m your sister."

"That may be. But there are thousands of people here, and half as many cameras."

"It’s not as if I said the whole name. It’s not as if I said Dom-o—"

"Don’t!" warned Butler. "I mean it."

The stage door was a mere twenty yards away, and the familiar rhythms of family bickering warmed Butler’s heart.

I think we’re going to make it, he thought in a rare moment of optimism.

Which was when the picture on the big screen was replaced by a giant pair of glowing red eyes. And although red eyes are usually associated with nasty things like vampires, chlorine burn, and conjunctivitis, these particular red eyes seemed friendly and infinitely trustworthy. In fact, anyone who gazed into the fluid swirling depths of these eyes felt that all their problems were about to be solved, if they just did what the owner of those eyes told them to do.

Butler inadvertently caught sight of the eyes in his peripheral vision but quickly tucked his head low.

Fairy magic, he realized. This entire crowd is about to be mesmerized.

"Look into my eyes," said a voice from every speaker in the room. The voice even managed to invade the cameras and phones of the audience.

"Wow," said Juliet in a monotone that did not suit the word. "I really need to look into those eyes."

Juliet might have been reluctant to do what the silky voice commanded if she’d had any memory of her dealings with the Fairy People. Unfortunately, those memories had been wiped from her mind.

"Block the exits," urged the voice. "Block all the exits. Use your bodies."

Juliet whipped off her mask, which was impeding her view of the screen. "Brother, we need to block the exits with our bodies."

Butler wondered how things could get much worse as hundreds of enraptured wrestling fans surged down the aisles to physically block the entrances and exits.

Block the exits with your bodies? This fairy is pretty specific.

Butler had no doubt that another command was forthcoming, and he doubted it would be Now join hands and sing sea shanties. No, he was certain that nothing benign would issue from that screen.

"Now kill the bear and the princess," said the layered voice, a few of the layers taking a moment to catch up, lending a sibilant sssss to princess. Kill the bear and the princess. Charming.

Butler noticed a glint of dark intent in his sister’s eyes as she realized that he was the bear. What would she do, he wondered, when she tumbled to the fact that she was the princess?

It doesn’t matter, he realized. We could both be dead long before that happens.

"Kill the bear and the princess," droned Juliet in perfect unison with the mesmerized crowd.

"And take your time about it," continued the magical voice, now infused with a merry note. "Drag it out a little. As you humans say: no pain no gain."

A comedian, thought Butler. It’s not Opal Koboi, then.

"Gotta kill you, brother," said Juliet. "I’m sorry. Truly."

Not likely, thought Butler. On a good day, if he was drugged and blindfolded, maybe Juliet could have inflicted a little damage, but in his experience the mesmer made people slow and stupid. A large part of their brains were switched off, and the parts left awake were not going to be winning any Nobel prizes.

Juliet tried a spinning kick but ended up twirling off balance and into Butler’s arms. Annoyingly, her jade ring spun around and clattered him on the ear. Even mesmerized, my sister is irritating.

Butler hefted Juliet easily, then tensed his muscles for flight.

"Kill you," muttered his sister. "Sorry. Gotta." Then: "Fairies? You kidding me?"

Was she remembering the Fowl Manor siege? Butler wondered. Had the mesmer accidentally triggered recall?

He could investigate later, if there were a later for them. Butler had considerable faith in his own ability, but he doubted that he could take on a theater full of zombies, even if they weren’t fleet of foot.

"Go to work, my human lackeys," said the voice that went along with the red eyes. "Dig deep into the darkest recesses of your brains, such as they are. Leave no evidence for the authorities."

Leave no evidence? What are they supposed to do with the evidence?

That question really didn’t bear thinking about.

Bear? Ha-ha-ha, thought Butler, and then: Jokes? I have time for jokes? Is it possible that I am frazzled? Pull it together, man. You’ve been through worse.

Although, looking at the dozens of stiff-limbed instapsychos lumbering down from the upper levels, Butler could not for the life of him remember when.

A pudgy forty-something man sporting an Undertaker T-shirt and a beer hat pointed at Butler from the aisle.

"Beaaaar!" he yowled. "Beaaaaar and princess!"

Butler borrowed a word from the fairy lexicon.

"D’Arvit," he said.





CHAPTER 3

ORION RISING

Vatnajökull, Iceland; Now

Artemis was jumping between psychoses.

"Not real!" he shouted at the descending ship. "You are nothing but a delusion, my friend."

And from there he hopped straight over into paranoia. "You planned this," he shouted at Holly. "Who were your partners? Foaly without doubt. Butler? Did you turn my faithful bodyguard against me? Did you burgle his mind and plant your own truths in there?"

From the rooftop, the directional mike in Holly’s helmet picked up no more than every second word, but it was enough to tell her that Artemis was not the clinical logistician he used to be.

If the old Artemis could see the new Artemis, the old Artemis would die of embarrassment.

Like Butler, Holly was having a hard time controlling her rebellious sense of humor in this dire hour.

"Get down!" she called. "The ship is real!"

"That’s what you want me to think. That ship is nothing more than a cog in your conspiracy. . . ." Artemis paused. If the ship was a cog in the conspiracy, and the conspiracy was real, then the ship must be real. "Five!" he blurted suddenly, having forgotten all about it for a minute. "Five ten fifteen."

He pointed all of his fingers at the ship, wiggling them furiously.

A ten-finger salute. Surely that will vaporize this vision.

And it seemed as though the fingers were having an effect. The four discus-shaped engines, which had been trailing behind the main body like helpless puppies tethered to their spooked master, suddenly flipped and began emitting anti-grav pulses that lolloped toward the ground in fat bubbles, slowing the ship’s descent faster than seemed possible for a craft of such inelegant dimensions.

"Hah!" crowed Artemis. "I control my own reality. Did you see that?"

Holly knew that, far from controlling anything, Artemis was actually witnessing a fairy probe’s landing sequence. She had never actually piloted a deep-space probe herself, but nevertheless knew that standing underneath such a behemoth while it was dropping anti-grav bubbles was more than enough to get a person killed, and wiggling fingers like a sideshow magician was not going to change that.

I have to get up, she thought.

But the injury in her legs held her down like a lead blanket.

I think my pelvis is broken, she realized. Maybe an ankle too.

Holly’s magic had an unusual potency, thanks to a couple of boosts from her friend the demon No1 (who was turning out to be the most magical warlock the university had ever enrolled). The magic was setting to work on her injuries, but not fast enough. Artemis had a couple of seconds before one of those anti-grav blobs tore him apart or the ship itself actually landed on his head. And you didn’t have to be a genius to figure out what would happen then, which was just as well, as Artemis didn’t seem to be a genius anymore.

"Assistance," she called weakly into her com set. "Someone. Anyone?"

There was no one. Anyone who had been inside the shuttle was beyond magic, and Foaly was still upended in the snowdrift.

Even if there were somebody, it’s too late.

Large crack patterns bloomed in the ice like hammer blows as the anti-grav pulses impacted on the surface. The cracks spread across the glacier with a noise like snapping branches, dropping large sinkholes through to the subterranean caverns below.

The ship was as big as a grain silo and seemed to be fighting against the pull of its tethered engines, throwing off waves of steam and jets of fluid. Rocket fuel drenched Artemis, making it difficult to ignore the fact that the rocket was real. But if there was one thing Artemis had not lost it was his stubbornness, and so he stood his ground, refusing to yield to his final squeak of good sense.

"Who cares?" he muttered.

Holly somehow heard the last two words and thought,

I care. Desperate situations call for desperate solutions.

Nothing to lose, thought Holly, flapping at the holster on her thigh.

She swept her pistol from its home in a slightly more erratic arc than usual. The gun was synced with her visor, but even so, Holly did not have time to check the settings. She simply held down the command sensor with her thumb, then spoke clearly into the microphone at the side of her mouth.

"Gun." [Pause for beep.] "Non lethal. Wide-bore concussive."

"Sorry, Artemis," she muttered, then fired a good three-second blast at her human friend.

Artemis was ankle deep in slush and in full-rant mode when Holly pulled the trigger.

The beam hit him like a slap from a giant electric eel.

His body was lifted and tossed through the air a moment before the probe clattered to a bone-crushing landing, obliterating the spot where he had been standing.

Artemis dropped into a crater like a sack of kindling and disappeared from Holly’s sightline. That’s not good, thought Holly, then saw her own magical sparks hover before her eyes like inquisitive amber-tailed fireflies.

Shutdown, she realized. My magic is sending me to sleep so that I can heal.

From the corner of her eye, Holly saw a door open in the probe’s belly and a gangplank swing down on hydraulics. Something was coming out.

Hope I get to wake up, Holly thought. I hate the ice and I don’t want to die cold.

Then she closed her eyes and did not feel her limp body roll from the rooftop and thump into a snowdrift below.

Barely a minute later, Holly’s eyes fluttered open. Waking up felt jagged and unreal, like documentary footage from a war zone. Holly could not remember standing, but suddenly she was on her feet, being dragged along by Foaly, who looked extremely disheveled, possibly because his beautiful quiff had been totally singed and sat balanced on top of his head like a bird’s nest. But mostly he seemed depressed.

"Come on, Captain!" Foaly shouted, his voice seeming a little out of sync with his mouth. "We need to move." Holly coughed amber sparks, and her eyes watered.

Amber magic now? I’m getting old.

Foaly shook her shoulders. "Straighten up, Captain. We have work to do."

The centaur was using trauma psychology. Holly knew this: she could remember the in-service course in Police Plaza.

In the event of battle stress, appeal to the soldiers’ professionalism. Remind them of their rank repeatedly. Insist that they perform their duty. This will not have a long-term healing effect on any psychological wounds, but it might be enough to get you back to base.

Commander Vinyáya had given that course.

Holly tried to pull herself together. Her legs felt brittle from the knees down, and her midsection buzzed from the post-healing pain known as magic burn.

"Is Artemis alive?"

"Don’t know," said Foaly brusquely. "I built those things, you know. I designed them."

"What things?"

Foaly dragged her to a glassy droop in the glacier, slicker than any ice rink.

"The things hunting us right now. The amorphobots. The things that came out of the probe."

They slid to the bottom of the bank, leaning forward to keep their balance.

Holly seemed to have developed tunnel vision, though her visor was panoramic. The edges of her vision crackled with amber static.

I am still healing. I shouldn’t be moving. Gods know what damage I will do myself.

Foaly seemed to read her mind, but more likely it was fairy empathy.

"I had to get you out of there. One of my amorphobots was heading your way, sucking up everything in its path. The probe’s gone below, to gods know where. Try to lean on me."

Holly nodded, then coughed again; the spray was instantly absorbed by her porous visor.

They hobbled across the ice toward the crater where Artemis lay. He was extremely pale and there was a speed drip of blood running from the corner of his mouth to his hairline. Foaly dropped to his forelegs and tried to encourage Artemis back into consciousness with a stiff talking to.

"Come on, Mud Boy," he said, poking Artemis’s forearm. "No time for lollygagging."

Artemis’s response to this chastising was a barely noticeable jerking of his arm. This was good—at least it told Holly that Artemis was still alive.

Holly tripped over the crater’s lip, and stumbled to the bottom.

"Lollygagging?" she gasped. "Is that even a word?"

Foaly poked Artemis one more time. "Yes. It is. And shouldn’t you be killing those robots with your pencil?"

Holly’s eyes seemed to light up. "Really? Can I do that?"

Foaly snorted. "Certainly. If your pencil has a super-duper demon magic beam inside it instead of graphite."

Holly was still groggy, but even through a fugue of injury and battle stress, it was obvious that the situation was dire. They heard strange metallic clicks and animalistic whoops chittering through the air, softly at first then rising in tempo and intensity to a frenzy.

The noise grated against Holly’s forehead as though her skin were being yanked.

"What is that?"

"The amorphobots are communicating," whispered Foaly. "Transferring terabytes of information wirelessly. Updating each other. What one knows, they all know."

Holly scanned Artemis’s vitals through her visor. The glowing readouts informed her that he had a slight heart murmur and there was some unusual brain activity in the parietal lobe. Other than that, the best thing her helmet computer could conclude about Artemis was that he was basically not dead. If she could survive this latest misadventure, maybe Artemis would too.

"What are they looking for, Foaly?"

"What are they looking for?" repeated the centaur, smiling that particular hysterical smile that exposed too much gum.

Holly suddenly felt her senses snap into focus and knew that the magic had finished its overhaul of her injuries. Her pelvis still throbbed and probably would for a few months, but she was operational again, so maybe she could lead them back to fairy civilization.

"Foaly, pull yourself together. We need to know what those things can do."

The centaur seemed put out that someone would choose this particular moment to ask him questions when he had so many vital issues to consider.

"Holly, really! Do we have time for explanations now?"

"Snap out of it, Foaly! Information, hand it over."

Foaly sighed, lips flapping. "They are biospheres. Amorphobots. Dumb plasma-based machines. They collect samples of plant life and analyze them in their plasma. Simple as that. Harmless."

"Harmless," blurted Holly. "I think someone has reprogrammed your amorphobots, centaur."

The blood disappeared from Foaly’s cheeks and his fingers twitched. "No. Not possible. That probe is supposed to be on its way to Mars to search for microorganisms."

"I think we can be pretty sure that your probe has been hijacked."

"There is another possibility," suggested Foaly. "I could be dreaming all of this."

Holly pressed on with her questions. "How do we stop them, Foaly?"

It was impossible to miss the fear that flickered across Foaly’s face, like a sun flash across a lake. "Stop them? The amorphobots are built to withstand prolonged exposure to open space. You could drop one of these onto the surface of a star and it would survive for long enough to transmit some information back to its mother probe. Obviously I have a kill code, but I suspect that has been overridden."

"There must be a way. Can’t we shoot them?"

"Absolutely not. They love energy. It feeds their cells. If you shoot them, they’ll just get bigger and more powerful."

Holly laid a palm on Artemis’s forehead, checking his temperature.

I wish you would wake up, she thought. We could really use one of your brilliant schemes right now.

"Foaly," she said urgently. "What are the amorphobots doing right now? What are they looking for?"

"Life," replied Foaly simply. "They’re doing a grid search now, starting at the drop site and moving out. Any life forms they encounter will be absorbed into the sac, analyzed, then released."

Holly peeped over the lip of the crater. "What are their scan criteria?"

"Thermal is the default. But they can use anything."

Thermal, thought Holly. Heat signatures. That’s why they are spending so much time by the flaming shuttle.

The amorphobots were arranged on corners of invisible grid squares, slowly working their way outward from the shuttle’s smoking carcass. They seemed innocuous enough, rolling balls of gel with twin glowing red sensors at their cores. Like slime balloons from a children’s party.

Maybe the size of a crunchball.

They couldn’t be all that dangerous surely. Dozy little blebers.

Her opinion altered sharply when one of the amorphobots changed color from translucent green to angry electric blue and the color spread to the others. Their eerie chittering became a constant shrill whine.

They have found something, Holly realized.

The entire squad of twenty or so bots converged on a single spot, some merging so that they formed larger blobs, which flowed across the ice with a speed and grace heretofore concealed. The bot that had flashed the message to the others allowed a charge to crackle across its skin, which it then discharged into a hillock of snow. An unfortunate snow fox leaped from the steam, tail smoking like a fuse, and made a dart for freedom.

It’s almost comical. Almost.

The amorphobots jiggled as though laughing and sent a few bolts of crackling blue energy after the doomed fox, carving black rents in the ground, steering the terror-stricken mammal away from the shelter of the Great Skua. In spite of the fox’s natural speed and agility, the bots anticipated its movements with incredible accuracy, sending the animal running in circles, its eyes rolling, tongue dangling.

There was only one possible conclusion to this game of cat and mouse. The largest amorphobot droned an impatient bass command through the almost invisible gel speakers in its body and turned abruptly to continue its search. The others followed, leaving only the original bot to hunt the fox. It quickly tired of the sport and nailed the fox in mid-jump with a bolt of power, cast like a spear from its midsection.

Murderer, thought Holly, more angry than horrified. Foaly didn’t design this.

Foaly suddenly moved in front of her. "You’ve got that look in your eyes, Captain."

"What look?"

"The one Julius Root always talked about. The I’m-about-to-do-something-incredibly-stupid look."

There was no time for debate. "I need to get to Artemis’s project."

"You can’t go. What does the LEP manual suggest in these kinds of situations?"

Holly ground her teeth. Her two geniuses were useless; she would have to do this herself.

"The manual, which you helped to write, would advise me to retreat to a safe distance and construct a bivouac, but, with respect, those guidelines are a pile of troll weevils."

"Wow. Nice respect. Do you know what the word respect actually means? I’m no book professor, but I’m pretty sure comparing my manual to a steaming pile of troll weevils does not constitute respect."

"I never said steaming," said Holly, then decided that time was short and she could apologize later. "Listen, Foaly. I don’t have a downlink to Police Plaza. There are murdering blobby robots on our trail, and the only people who might be able to come up with a solution are either fast asleep dreaming or, in your case, wide awake dreaming. So I need you to cover me while I make a run for Artemis’s crate. Do you think you can do that?"

Holly handed the centaur her backup weapon. Foaly held the gun gingerly, as though it were radioactive, which to a certain degree it was.

"Okay. I know how this thing works, in theory."

"Good," said Holly, and slithered on her belly up and onto the ice field before she could change her mind.

Holly felt her torso numb and stiffen as she slid across the glacier. The ice stretched in front of her, carved by the prevailing wind into elegant swoops and whorls, a wind that was to her rear, making progress relatively easy considering she had until recently been suffering from several broken bones.

Saved by magic once more.

But now she had not a spark left in her.

The fox’s carcass lay smoking on a bed of snow, melting a grave for itself.

Holly tore her gaze from the pathetic mammal’s eyes, still rolled back in its blackened head, and looked instead at Artemis’s crate, which stood disregarded by the bots, but past their search line.

I need to breach the line unnoticed. Their default sensor is heat. I’ll give them a little heat to think about.

Holly switched on the air-conditioning in her suit, which had about five minutes left in it according to her visor readout, then selected the flare package on her Neutrino handgun. She also accidentally activated the tunes player in her helmet with a series of shivery winks. Luckily, the volume was muted and she managed to switch off Grazen McTortoor’s metal epic "Troll Sundown" before the amorphobots detected the vibration.

Grazen McTortoor’s music never killed anyone before. He’d probably be thrilled.

Holly flipped onto her back, looking up at a sky of pitch and granite, the bowed cloud bellies licked by flame.

Heat.

Holly steadied her hand and removed the detachable trigger finger section of her glove. She pointed her weapon skyward and sent a wide-arced spray of flares into the air.

Flares. If only someone could see them and come to help.

The amorphobots’ relaxed chittering amped up to a whine, and Holly realized that it was time to move.

She was up on her feet and running before her good sense had time to kick in. She raced full pelt for Artemis’s crate, taking as straight a tack as possible, weapon held along her sightline.

I don’t care what Foaly says. If one of those red-eyed monsters comes anywhere near me, I’m going to find out what a plasma grenade does to its innards.

The bots had without exception pointed their sensors toward the descending flares, which fizzled like the sputterings of an oxyacetylene torch cutting through the clouds. The amorphobots’ malleable bodies sprouted gel periscopes and they stood, following the flares’ progress like ill-defined meerkats. They may have noticed an inconsistent heat source jiggling across the glacier, but they were programmed to prioritize.

Not so smart after all.

Holly ran as fast as her brittle bones would carry her.

The terrain was flat but treacherous. The light September snow had dusted the grooves, and Holly almost lost her footing in a tractor trail. Her ankle grated but did not crack. Lucky.

Lucky little elf

Sat on the shelf

And the silly human boy

Mistook her for a toy

A nursery rhyme used to teach children to sit still if they saw a human.

Think like a little tree and that’s what the Mud Men will see.

I’m a tree, thought Holly, without much conviction. A little tree.

So far, so good: the bots were glued to the flares and were showing no interest in her heat signature. She skirted the wreckage of the shuttle, trying not to hear the groan of the chassis or notice the front panel of a flight suit melded with the windscreen. Beyond the shuttle lay Artemis’s great experiment. An oversized refrigerator cannon.

Great. More ice.

Holly knelt at the base of what Artemis had called his Ice Cube and quickly located the control panel, which luckily had an omnisensor, so it was a simple matter to sync it with her own helmet. Now the refrigerator cannon would fire when she wanted, and at whatever target she chose. She set a timer running and set herself running seconds afterward, straight back the way she had come.

It occurred to her that the flares were lasting well, and she really should congratulate Foaly on the new models, at which point they inevitably began to wink out.

With no more pretty lights in the sky, the amorphobots returned to their methodical searching of the site for signs of life. One was dispatched to check the erratic blob of heat crossing their grid. It rolled across the surface, scanning the ground as it went, sending out gel tendrils to scoop up debris and even whipping out a tongue like a bullfrog’s to snag a low-flying black-headed gull. If there had been a sound track to its movements it would have been tum-ti-tum-ti-tum. Business as usual, no worries. Then its vector crossed Holly’s, and they virtually collided. The bot’s scanner eyes flashed, and lightning bolts jittered inside its globulous body.

All I need is a few seconds, thought Holly, and blasted the bot with a narrow beam right in its gut.

The beam sliced through the center of the blobby body, but was diffused before reaching the hardware nerve center at the core. The bot bounced backward like a kicked ball, whining as it did so, updating its friends.

Holly did not slow down to see what the response might be; she did not need to—her keen elfin hearing gave her all the information she needed: they were coming for her. They were all coming. Their semisolid forms pummeled the ice as they moved like quick bongo rolls, along with that dreadful chittering.

A bot in her path skittered to one side, a temporary Neutrino hole drilled in its top quadrant. Apparently Foaly was taking his job as cover provider seriously, even though he knew his weapon could not kill these things.

Thanks, Mr. Consultant.

The bots were converging on her now, trundling from all sides, burping and squeaking as they came.

Like kiddie-cartoon characters.

Which did not stop Holly from blasting as many of the cute critters as she could. She vaguely heard Foaly shouting at her to kindly only shoot when necessary, or to quote him verbatim:

Holly. In the name of all the gods, stop shooting energy into all-energy beings. Just how stupid are you?

The bots quivered and meshed, growing larger and more aggressive.

"D’Arvit," huffed Holly, her breath coming hard now. Her helmet informed her cheerily that her heart rate was over 240 bpm, which would be fine for a sprite but not for an elf. Normally a flat-out sprint would not inconvenience Holly, nor indeed any fairy who had passed the LEP physical, but this was a desperate dash immediately after a major healing. She should be in a hospital sipping rejuvenation sludge through a straw.

"Two minutes to cardiac arrest," said her helmet breezily. "Ceasing all physical activity would be a really great idea."

Holly spared a nanosecond to despise the voice of her helmet. Corporal Frond, the glamorous face of the LEP, all blond hair and tight jumpsuits, who’d recently had her bloodline traced back to Frond the Elfin King, now insisted on referring to herself as Princess.

Foaly emerged from the crater and grabbed his friend’s elbow. "Come on, Holly. We have seconds of life left before those critters that you led right to our hidey-hole kill us all like rodents."

Holly ran as fast as she could, bones creaking. "I have a plan."

They stumbled over the frozen glacier, back to the depression where Artemis Fowl lay unconscious. The amorphobots flowed after them like marbles rolling down the side of a bowl.

Foaly dived into the hole. It was not elegant—centaurs do not make good divers, which is why they do not compete in pool events.

"Whatever your idea was, it’s not working," he cried.

Holly also dived into the depression, covering Artemis as well as she could.

"Put your face in the ice," she ordered. "And hold your breath."

Foaly ignored her, his attention attracted by Artemis’s Ice Cube, which was swiveling on its base.

"It seems that Artemis’s cannon is about to fire," he said, his scientific interest piqued in spite of the horrible death approaching them.

Holly grabbed the centaur’s mane, roughly dragging him to the ground. "Face down, hold breath. How hard is that?"

"Oh," said Foaly. "I see."

There must have been a buildup of heat somewhere, because the bots froze for a moment, exchanging curious chitters. The noise was quickly drowned out by a bass heavy thump followed by a descending whistle.

"Ooooh," chorused the amorphobots, sprouting gel periscopes.

Foaly closed one eye and cocked his ear. "Mortar," he proclaimed, and then as the whistling grew louder he decided that it might be a good idea to take a breath and cover as many orifices as possible.

This is really going to hurt, he thought, and for some reason giggled like a four-year-old pixette.

Then the entire indent was submerged in a pancake of densely packed nano-wafers that worked into every crack, coating the occupants of the hole and completely obliterating any heat signatures.

The amorphobots jiggled backward, away from the mystery substance, searched around for the beings they had been pursuing, and then shrugged their blobby shoulders and trundled after their mother ship, which had bludgeoned and melted its way through the surface to the subterranean volcanoes below.

Underneath the gunky quagmire, two fairies and one human lay still, blowing bubbles with their breath.

"It worked," gasped Holly finally.

"Shut your face," snapped Foaly.

Holly pulled his head free from the goo strings. "What did you say to me?"

"Don’t take it personally," said Foaly. "I just felt like being rude to someone. Do you have any idea what it’s going to be like getting this stuff out of my mane? Cabelline will shave me for sure."

"Save you?

"Shave me. What are you, deaf?"

"No. My ears are clogged with stuff."

Holly flip-flopped herself and Artemis from the indent, using her glove-sensor to check the human’s vitals.

Still alive.

She tilted his head back to make sure the airway was clear.

Come back to us, Artemis. We need you.

The amorphobots had gone, and the only signs that they had ever been on the Vatnajökull glacier were the grooves in the ice and snow that marked their passage. The air was blessedly chitter free, though maybe a little chittering would have distracted from the crackle of still-burning troop shuttle.

Holly separated from Artemis with a noise like a very big Band-Aid being slowly pulled from a weeping wound.

What a disaster, she thought, the weight of her coated helmet causing her head to droop. What a total catastrophe.

Holly looked around, trying to make some kind of assessment of the situation. Commander Vinyáya was gone, along with the military. An LEP Martian probe had been hijacked by forces unknown and seemed to be heading into Earth’s crust. The probe was blocking their link to Haven, and it was only a matter of time before humans came to investigate all the flares and explosions. And she had no magic left to shield herself.

"Come on, Artemis," she said, desperation creeping into her voice. "We’re in deeper trouble than ever before. Come on, you love this kind of impossible problem. I’m sorry I shot you."

Holly tugged off a glove and held her fingers high, inspecting them just in case a spark remained.

Nothing. No magic. Perhaps it was just as well. The mind was a delicate instrument, and Artemis’s dabblings with the fairy arts had probably triggered his Atlantis Complex in the first place. If Artemis wanted to get well, he would have to do it the old-fashioned way, with pills and electroshock. I already gave him his first shock, thought Holly, swallowing a guilty chuckle.

Artemis shifted on the ice, trying to blink under a faceful of sloppy nano-wafers.

"Unhhh," he moaned. "Ayyy ga breee."

"Wait," said Holly, scooping handfuls of gunk away from his nostrils and mouth. "Let me help."

Artemis’s own inventions dribbled from the corners of his mouth. There was something different about his eyes. They were the same colors as usual, but softer somehow.

You’re dreaming.

"Artemis?" she said, half expecting a typical snappy retort, as in, Of course it’s Artemis. Who were you expecting? But instead he simply said:

"Hello."

Which was fine, and Holly was happy enough, until he followed it with:

"And who might you be?"

Ooooh, D’Arvit.

Holly tugged off her helmet. "It’s me, Holly."

Artemis smiled in delight. "Of course, yes. Artemis thinks about you all the time. It’s embarrassing that I didn’t recognize you. First time up close."

"Uh . . . Artemis thinks about me. But you don’t?"

"Oh yes, I do constantly, and may I say you look even more bewitching in the flesh."

Holly felt a feeling of foreboding creep over her like the shadow of a summer storm cloud.

"So, we haven’t met before?"

"Not met, per se," replied the human youth. "I have of course been aware of you. Seen you from afar, submerged as I was by Artemis’s personality. Thank you for releasing me, by the way. I had been making inroads in the host consciousness for some time now, since Artemis developed his little number obsession, but that jolt from your weapon was just the thing to give me the boost I needed. It was your weapon, wasn’t it?"

"Yes, it was," said Holly absently. "And you’re welcome.

I think." A sudden idea cut through her confusion. "How many fingers am I holding up?"

The boy did a quick digit check. "Four."

"And that doesn’t bother you?"

"No. To me a number is a number. Four is no more a harbinger of death than any other whole number. Fractions, though, they’re freakish."

The youth smiled at his own joke. A smile of such simple saintly goodness that it would have made Artemis retch.

Holly was drawn into the psychosis and had to ask, "So if you’re not Artemis Fowl, then who are you?"

The boy extended a dripping hand straight up. "My name is Orion. I am so pleased to meet you at last. I am, of course, your servant."

Holly shook the proffered hand, thinking that manners were lovely, but she really needed someone cunning and ruthless right now, and this kid didn’t appear to be very cunning.

"That’s great, em . . . Orion. Really. We’re in a bind here, and I can use all the help I can get."

"Excellent," said the boy. "I have been taking stock of the situation from the rear seat, as it were, and I suggest that we retire to a safe distance and construct some form of bivouac."

Holly groaned. Of all the times for Artemis to go AWOL inside his own head.

Foaly clambered from the morass of nano-wafers, using his fingers to draw aside curtains of gunk that obscured his vision.

"I see Artemis has woken up. Good. We could do with one of his trademark apparently-ridiculous-but-actually-ingenious plans."

"Bivouac," said the boy in Artemis Fowl’s head. "I suggest a bivouac, and perhaps we could gather kindling for a campfire, and some leaves to make a cushion for the lovely lady."

"Kindling? Did Artemis Fowl just use the word kindling? And who’s the lovely lady?"

The wind picked up suddenly, lifting loose surface snow and sending it skittering across the ice. Holly felt flakes settle on her exposed neck, sending a prickling chill trickling down her spine.

Things are bad now, she realized. And they’re about to get worse. Where are you, Butler? Why aren’t you here?





CHAPTER 4

FLOYD’S STAG NIGHT

Cancún, Mexico; The Night Before

Butler had an excuse for not being in Iceland that would hold up in any court of law and possibly even on a note for teacher. In fact, he had a number of excuses.

One: his employer and friend had sent him away on a rescue mission that had turned out to be a trap. Two: his sister had been in fake trouble, whereas now she was in very real trouble. And three: he was being chased around a theater in Mexico by a few thousand wrestling fans, who at this moment looked very much like zombies, without the rotting limbs.

Butler had read in the entertainment section of his in-flight magazine that vampires had been all the rage, but this year zombies were in.

They’re certainly in here, thought Butler. Far too many of them.

Strictly speaking, zombies wasn’t an accurate description of the mass of mindless humans milling about in the theater. They were of course mesmerized, which is not the same thing at all. The generally accepted definition of a zombie is: a reanimated corpse with a taste for human brains. The mesmerized wrestling fans were not dead and had no desire to sniff anyone’s brains, never mind take a bite out of them. They were converging on the aisle from all sides, cutting off any possible escape routes, and Butler was forced to back up over the collapsed ring and onto the wrestling platform. This retreat would not have made the top one hundred on his list of preferred options, but at this stage, any action that granted a few more heartbeats was preferable to standing still and accepting one’s fate.

Butler slapped his sister’s thigh, which was easy, as she was still slung over his shoulder.

"Hey," she complained. "What was that for?"

"Just checking your state of mind."

"I’m me, okay? Something happened in my brain. I remember Holly and all the other fairies."

Total recall, Butler surmised. Her encounter with the fairy mesmerist had watered the seed of memory in his sister’s mind, and it had sprawled in there, bringing everything back. It was possible, he supposed, that the strength of this mental chain reaction had obliterated the attempted mesmerization.

"Can you fight?" Juliet swung her legs high, then flipped into a fighting stance.

"I can fight better than you, old-timer."

Butler winced. Sometimes having a sister two decades younger than oneself meant putting up with a lot of ageist comments.

"My insides are not as old as my outsides, if you must know. Those Fairy People you are just now remembering gave me an overhaul. They took fifteen years off, and I have a Kevlar chest. So I can look after myself, and you, if need be."

As they bantered, the siblings automatically swiveled so they were back to back and covering each other. Butler talked to let his sister know that he was hopeful they could escape from this. Juliet responded to show her big brother that she was not afraid so long as they stood side by side. Neither of these unspoken messages was true, exactly, but they gave a modicum of comfort.

The mesmerized wrestling fans were having a little trouble negotiating the wrestling platform, and their packed bodies clogged the ringside like sticks in a dam. When one did manage to climb up, Butler tossed him or her back out as gently as possible. Juliet was not so gentle on her first toss, and Butler definitely heard something snap.

"Easy, sister. These are innocent people. Their brains have been hijacked."

"Oops, sorry," said Juliet, not sounding in the least penitent, and rammed the heel of her hand into the solar plexus of someone who was probably a soccer mom when not mesmerized.

Butler sighed. "Like this," he said patiently. "Watch. You pick them up and just slide them out over the top of their friends. Minimum impact." He performed the move a few times just to give Juliet the idea.

Juliet jettisoned a drooling teenager. "Better?"

"Much." Butler jerked a thumb at the screen overhead. "That fairy has mesmerized everyone who looked into his eyes and heard his voice. It’s not their fault they’re attacking us."

Juliet almost looked upward, but stopped herself in time. On screen, the red eyes still burned, and over the speaker system that soft hypnotic voice flowed through the crowd like warm honey, telling them everything would be all right if they could just kill the princess and the bear. If they could perform that one simple act, all their dreams would come true. The voice affected the Butlers, made their sense of purpose a little mushy, but without eye contact it could not control their actions.

More of the crowd was making it onto the stage now, and it was only a matter of seconds before the platform collapsed.

"We need to shut that guy up," shouted Butler over the rising hubbub of mesmerized moaning. "Can you reach the screen?"

Juliet squinted, measuring the distance. "I can reach the gantry if you give me a little height."

Butler patted one of his broad shoulders. "Climb aboard, little sister."

"Just a sec," said Juliet, dispatching a bearded cowboy with a roundhouse kick. She climbed up Butler’s frame with the agility of a monkey and stood on his shoulders. "Okay, boost me."

Butler grunted a grunt that any family member could interpret as Hold on a moment, and with Juliet balanced overhead, he punched one of the support wrestlers in the windpipe, and swept another’s legs from under him.

Those two were twins, he realized. And dressed as Tasmanian devils. This is the strangest fight I have ever been in, and I’ve tangled with trolls.

"Here we go," he said to Juliet, sidestepping a man in a hot-dog costume. Butler wiggled his fingers under her toes.

"Can you lift me?" asked his sister, keeping her balance with the ease of an Olympic gymnast, which Juliet might have been if she could have woken up in time for the early morning training sessions.

"Of course I can lift you," snapped Butler, who might have been an Olympic weightlifter if he hadn’t been battling goblins in an underground laboratory when the last trials were on.

He sucked in a breath through his nose, tightened his core, and then with a burst of explosive power and a growl that would not have sounded out of place in a Tarzan movie, he thrust his baby sister straight up toward the twenty-foot-tall metal gantry supporting the screen and a pair of conical speakers.

There was no time to check if Juliet had made it, as the zombies had formed a body ramp, and the wrestling fans of Cancún were pouring onto the stage, all determined to kill Butler slowly and painfully.

Right now would have been a prudent time to have activated the jet pack he often wore underneath his jacket, but in the absence of a jet pack, and his jacket, Butler thought it might be an idea to increase the aggression of his defense, enough to buy himself and Juliet a few more seconds.

He stepped forward to meet the throng, using an adapted form of tai chi to tumble the front row back into the crowd, building a mountain of bodies the mesmerized fans would have to climb over. Which worked fine for about half a minute until half of the stage collapsed, allowing the unconscious bodies to roll off and form an effective ramp for the wrestling fans to climb. The injured fans seemed not to feel any pain and climbed instantly to their feet, often walking on twisted and swollen ankles.

The drones flowed onto the stage with only one desire in their hijacked minds.

Kill Crazy Bear.

It’s hopeless, thought Butler, for the first time in his life. Utterly hopeless.

He didn’t go down easy, but go down he did under the sheer weight of bodies flowing over him. His face was smooshed by back fat, and he felt teeth close around his ankle. Punches were thrown, but they were badly aimed and weak.

I am going to be crushed to death, Butler realized. Not beaten.

This realization didn’t make him feel any better. What did make him feel better was the fact that Juliet should be safe on the gantry.

Butler fell back, like Gulliver dragged down by the lilliputians. He could smell popcorn and beer, deodorant and sweat. His chest was pressed and tight, breath came hard. Someone wrestled with one of his boots for some reason, and suddenly he could not move. He was a prisoner under the sheer weight of bodies.

Artemis is alone. Juliet will know to take my place as his bodyguard.

Lack of oxygen turned the world black, and it was as much as Butler could do to shove his arm through the mass of bodies smothering him, and wiggle his fingers good-bye to his sister.

Someone bit his thumb.

Then he disappeared utterly, and the fairy on the screen laughed.

Juliet hooked two fingers of her left hand around the bottom lip of a gantry beam and pressed down so hard that she could almost feel her fingerprints. For ninety-nine percent of the world’s population, two fingers would simply not be enough to bear one’s own bodyweight. Most mere mortals would need a strong two-handed grip to keep them up for no more than a minute, and there is a large percentage of people who couldn’t hoist themselves aloft with anything short of a winch system and a couple of trained shire horses. But Juliet was a Butler and had been trained at Madame Ko’s Personal Protection Agency, where there had been an entire semester devoted to body-weight vectors. In a pinch, Juliet could keep herself off the ground using only a single toe, so long as no passing mischief-maker decided to tickle her in the weak spot under her rib cage.

While it is one thing to hold oneself aloft, it is quite another to hoist oneself upward, but fortunately Madame Ko had put a few seminars into that too. That is not to say it was easy, and Juliet imagined her muscles screaming as she swung her other hand about for a better grip, then hauled herself on to the beam. On another day, she would have paused to allow her heart to slow down a little, but from the corner of her eye she saw her brother about to be engulfed by wrestling fans, and decided that this was not the day for leisurely recuperation.

Juliet popped to her feet and ran the length of the beam with the confidence of a gymnast. A good gymnast, that is, not one who slips painfully on the beam, which is exactly what happened to a mesmerized lighting technician who attempted to cut Juliet off before she could reach the screen.

Juliet winced. "Oooh. That looked sore, Arlene." Arlene did not comment, unless turning purple and tumbling flailing into space can be counted as commentary.

Juliet knew that she shouldn’t have grinned when the technician’s fall was comically broken by a cluster of men lumbering toward her brother, but she couldn’t hold it in.

Her smile faded when she noticed the mass of bodies swarming along Butler’s frame, burying him. Another technician approached her, this one a little smarter than his predecessor; he straddled the beam with his ankles locked below him. As he inched forward, he banged a large spanner on the beam, raising concussive bongs and spark flurries.

Juliet timed the arc of his swing, then planted a foot on his head and stepped over him as though he were a rock in the middle of a stream. She did not bother to topple the man from his perch. By the time he turned around, it would be too late for him to stop her, but he should have a nice bruise on his forehead to wonder about when his senses returned.

The screen was ahead, bracketed by metal tubing, and the red eyes glared at her out of the black background, seeming to emanate pure hate.

Or maybe this guy was up late partying.

"Stop where you are, Juliet Butler!" said the voice, and to Juliet it seemed as though the tones were suddenly those of Christian Varley Penrose, her instructor at the Madame Ko Agency. The only person, besides her brother, whom she had ever considered her physical equal.

"Some students make me proud," Christian would say in his BBC tones. "You just make me despair. What was that move?"

And Juliet would invariably answer. "It’s something I made up, master."

"Made up? Made up? That is not good enough."

Juliet would pout and think, It was good enough for Bruce Lee.

And now Christian Varley Penrose seemed to have a line directly into her brain.

"Stop where you are!" the voice told her. "And, having stopped, feel free to lose your balance and plummet to the earth below."

The voice, Juliet felt, was taking hold of her determination and twisting it like a wet towel.

Don’t look. Don’t listen.

But she had looked and listened, if only for a second, and it was long enough for the insidious magic to snake a couple of tendrils into her brain. Her legs locked as though clamped with braces, and the paralysis spread upward.

"D’Arvit," said Juliet, though she wasn’t quite sure why and, with her last spurt of self-control, pinwheeled her arms wildly, sending her entire body careening into the tubular frame supporting the screen and speakers.

The screen yielded elastically, and for a moment, the little bubble of Juliet’s mind that she still held on to believed that the screen would not break; then her elbow, which Butler had told her as a child was sharp enough to open a tin of field rations, punched through the material, sending a jagged rent running down its length.

The fairy’s red eyes rolled, and the last thing Juliet heard before her outstretched arm snagged the AV cables was an irritated snort, and then she was tumbling through a hole in the suddenly blank screen and falling toward the spasming mass of bodies below.

Juliet used the half-second before impact to curl herself into a ball.

Her very last thought before striking the crowd was: I hope zombies are soft.

They were not.

As soon as the fairy had flickered from the screen, the enthralled wrestling enthusiasts gradually regained their senses.

Geri Niebalm, a retired beauty therapist from Seattle, found that she had somehow made it all the way from the rear of the hall to the stage itself without the aid of her walking frame. What was more, she had a phantom memory of vaulting over several youngsters in her pursuit of that pretty young wrestler with the stone in her ponytail. Two months later, Geri would undergo regression therapy at her friend Dora Del Mar’s salon to bring that memory to the surface so that she could relish it at her leisure.

Stu "Cheeze" Toppin, a semiprofessional bowler from Las Vegas, woke up to find his mouth somehow stuffed with a foul-smelling nappy and the words kill bear kill written across his shirtfront in lipstick. This rather confused Stu, as his last memory was of the succulent hot dog he had been just about to bite into. Now, with the nappy aftertaste lingering on his tongue, Stu decided that he might just forget about the hot dog for the time being.

Though Stu had no way of knowing, the nappy in question belonged to little André Price, a baby from Portland who suddenly developed a speed and grace unheard of in eight-month-old limbs. Most victims of the mesmer move in a sluggish fashion, but André skipped over the heads of mob members and executed a perfect triple somersault from the ringside commentator’s table, managing to sink his only tooth into Butler’s thumb before the bodyguard was completely submerged. André Price began speaking a few months later—unfortunately it was in a language that his parents had no way of knowing was actually Gnommish. To their relief, he quickly picked up English too, though he never forgot his strange first language and found that he could sometimes make twigs burst into flame if he thought about it hard enough. A huge cacophonous moan almost lifted the roof from the theater as thousands of people realized they were not where they were supposed to be. Though there were miraculously no fatalities, by the time the last cut had been swabbed with antiseptic, there was a final count of 348 broken bones, more than 11,000 lacerations, and 89 cases of hysteria that had to be treated with sedatives, which, luckily for the patients, were a lot cheaper in Mexico than they would have been in the U.S.

And even though this was the age of amateur video, where most of those attending the event were in possession of at least one camera, there was not a single frame of evidence to prove that the mass mesmerization had ever taken place. In fact, when police flicked through the files on the confiscated cameras and phones, they found that every single instrument had been reset to factory conditions. No photos. In time, the Cancún Event, as it came to be known, would be mentioned in the same breath as Area 51 or the Yeti Migration.

Butler did not suffer from hysteria, possibly because he did not have enough air in his lungs for screaming, but probably because he had been in tighter spots (Butler had once shared a chimney in a Hindu temple with a tiger for several hours), but he had suffered over a dozen lacerations of his own, though he did not wait around long enough to have them added to the count.

As for Juliet, she was relatively unmarked in spite of her tumble. The moment she had recovered her breath, she began rolling bodies away from the spot where she had seen her brother submerged.

"Butler!" she called. "Brother! Are you under here?"

The top of her brother’s head appeared, smooth as a lollipop. Juliet knew immediately that her brother was alive because of the vein pulsing at his temple.

There was a chubby seminaked infant wrapped around Butler’s face and chewing on his thumb. Juliet dislodged the boy gently, noticing that he seemed very sweaty for a baby.

Butler drew a deep breath. "Thank you, sister. Not only did that child bite my thumb, but it tried to get a fist up one of my nostrils."

The baby gurgled happily, wiped its fingers in Juliet’s ponytail, then crawled across the piles of humanity toward a crying lady who was waiting with open arms.

"I know you’re supposed to like babies," said Juliet, huffing as she grabbed a banker type by his braces and sprung him from his perch on Butler’s shoulders, "but that guy stank and he was a biter." She took a firm grip on a middle-aged lady whose blond hair had been sprayed till it shone like a buttercup. "Come on, missus. Get off my big brother."

"Oh," said the lady, eyelids fluttering as she tried to make sense of everything. "I was supposed to catch the bear. Or something like that. And I had popcorn, a large popcorn that I just paid for. Who’s going to compensate me for that?"

Juliet rolled the lady across the bellies of four identically dressed cowboys who all wore floyd’s stag night T-shirts under their rhinestoned waistcoats.

"This is ridiculous," she grunted. "I am a glamorous young lady. I can’t be dealing with all this body odor and squidginess."

There was indeed a lot of body odor and squidginess about, much of it related to Floyd and his stag night, which smelled like it had been going on for about two weeks.

This was confirmed when the cowboy wearing a floyd badge awoke from his stupor with the words: "Dang. I stink worse than a dead skunk wearing a suit of bananer skins."

Bananer? thought Juliet.

Butler rolled his head, clearing space to breathe.

"We’ve been set up," he said. "Have you made any enemies down here?"

Juliet felt sudden tears plop over her bottom lids. She had been so worried. So worried. Big brothers can only be indestructible for so long.

"You big galoot," she said, sounding very Floyd-like. "For your information, I am fine. I saved you and everyone else."

Butler elbowed himself gently from between two luchadores dressed in garish Lycra and leather masks.

"Time for patting yourself on the back later, sister." He climbed from the tangle of limbs and stood tall in the center of the stage. "Do you see all of this?"

Juliet clambered along her brother’s frame and stood lightly on his shoulders, and then to show off she stepped with easy balance onto his head. One foot only, the other tucked behind her knee.

Now that she had a second to appreciate the enormity of what had happened, it took her breath away. A sea of confusion spread out all around them, groaning and twisting. Blood ran, bones cracked, and tears flowed. It was a disaster area. People pawed at their mobile phones for comfort, and sprinklers sent down a fine mist that dusted Juliet’s face.

"All this to kill us," she breathed.

Butler held out his massive palms, and, as she had done so many times in the Fowl dojo, Juliet stepped onto her brother’s hands.

"Not just to kill us," he said. "Two bolts from a Neutrino could have done that. This was entertainment for someone."

Juliet somersaulted to the stage. "Entertainment for who?"

At the rear of the conference hall, a section of the stand collapsed, sending up a fresh round of shrieks and misery.

"I don’t know," said the bodyguard grimly. "But whoever tried to kill us wanted Artemis unguarded. First I change into my own clothes, and then we find out who Artemis has annoyed this time."





CHAPTER 5

ONWARD AND OUTWARD

The Deeps Maximum Security Prison, Atlantis; Now

Turnball Root took his entertainment wherever he could get it. Maximum security prisons didn’t tend to be brimming with fun and flighty distractions. The guards were gruff and unobliging. The beds were unyielding and not enjoyable to bounce on, and the color scheme was simply ghastly. Olive green throughout. Disgusting. In surroundings like this, one had to enjoy every modicum of light relief that came one’s way.

For months after his arrest by his brother, Commander Julius Root, and that naive, straight-arrow Holly Short, Turnball had simply fumed. He had actually spent weeks on end pacing his cell, bouncing his hatred off the walls. Sometimes he ranted, and occasionally he threw fits, smashing his furniture to smithereens. He realized eventually that the only person he was hurting with these displays was himself. This point had been driven home when he’d developed an ulcer, and because he had long since forfeited his magic through abuse and neglect, he had been forced to call in a medical warlock to put his organs right. The young whelp didn’t seem much older than Turnball’s prison uniform and had been extremely patronizing. Called him grandpa. Grandpa! Didn’t they remember, these whelps? Who he was? What he had accomplished?

I am Turnball Root, he would have thundered, had the healing not totally sapped his strength. Captain Turnball Root, nemesis of the LEP. I stripped every ingot of gold from the First Pixie Prudential Bank. I was the one who rigged the Centenary Crunchball Final. How dare you refer to me as grandpa!

"Youngsters today, Leonor," muttered Turnball to his absent, beloved wife. "No respect."

Then he shuddered as he considered this statement.

"Ye gods, darling. I do sound old."

And using phrases like ye gods wasn’t helping any.

Once he’d had enough of self-pity, Turnball had decided to make the best of the situation.

My chance will come eventually to be with you again, Leonor. Until then, why not make myself as comfortable as possible?

It hadn’t been too difficult. After months of incarceration, Turnball had opened a dialogue with the warden, Tarpon Vinyáya, a malleable university graduate who had never washed blood from under his manicured nails, and had offered Tarpon tidbits of information to send to his sister Raine in the LEP in return for some harmless comforts. It hadn’t bothered Turnball a whit to sell out his old underworld contacts, and for his trouble he was allowed to wear whatever he liked. He chose his old LEP dress uniform, complete with ruffled shirt and three-corner hat, but without insignias. Betraying two visa forgers working out of Cuba got him a computer limited to the prison network. And the address of a rogue dwarf operating as a house breaker in Los Angeles got him a simdown quilt for his plank of a bed. The warden would not be moved on the bed, however. Something for which his sister would one day pay the price.

Turnball had often passed many a happy hour thinking how he would one day kill the warden in revenge for this slight. But, truth be told, Turnball was not too concerned about the fate of Tarpon Vinyáya. He was far more interested in securing his own freedom, in looking deep into his wife’s eyes once more. And to achieve these goals, Turnball would have to play the soft, doddery reprobate for a while longer. He had been toadying up to the warden for more than six years now; what did a few more days matter?

Then I will be transformed into my true self, he thought, squeezing his fingers into tight fists. And this time, my baby brother won’t be around to apprehend me, unless that young rascal Artemis Fowl has come up with a way to bring the dead back to life.

The door to Turnball’s cell fizzled and dissolved as a nuclear-powered charge precipitated a phase change. In the doorway stood Mr. Vishby, Turnball’s regular guard for the past four years and the one that he had finally managed to turn. Turnball did not like Vishby, in fact he detested all Atlantean elves with their fishlike heads, slobbering gills, and thick tongues, but Vishby had the seeds of discontent in his heart, and so had unknowingly become Turnball’s slave. Turnball was prepared to tolerate anybody who could help him escape from this prison before it was too late.

Before I lose you, my darling.

"Ah, Mr. Vishby," he gushed, rising from his non-regulation office chair (three mackerel-smuggling sprites). "You’re looking well. That gill rot is really clearing up."

Vishby’s hand flew to the triple stripes below his tiny left ear.

"Do you think so, Turnball?" he gurgled, his voice thick and labored. "Leeta says she can’t stand to look at me." know how Leeta feels, thought Turnball, and: There was a day when I would have had you flogged for addressing me by my first name. Captain Root, if you please. Instead of voicing these less than complimentary thoughts, he took Vishby by his slick elbow with barely a flinch of revulsion. "Leeta does not know how lucky she is," he said smoothly. "You, my friend, are a catch."

Vishby did not try to conceal his flinch. "A c-catch?"

Turnball drew a sharp, guilty breath. "Ah yes, excuse me, Vishby. Atlantean water elves do not like to think of themselves as catches, or being caught, for that matter. What I meant to say was that you are a fine specimen of an elf and any female in her right mind would consider herself fortunate indeed to have you as a mate."

"Thanks, Turnball," muttered Vishby, mollified. "How’s it been going, then? The plan?"

Turnball squeezed the water elf’s elbow to remind him that there were eyes and ears everywhere.

"Oh, my plan to construct a model of the Nostremius aquanaut? That plan? It’s going rather well. Warden Tarpon Vinyáya is being most cooperative. We’re negotiating over glue." He led Vishby to his computer screen. "Let me show you my latest blueprint, and can I say how much I appreciate your taking an interest? My rehabilitation depends on interaction with decent individuals like yourself."

"Uh . . . okay," said Vishby, uncertain whether or not he had just been complimented.

Turnball Root waved his hand in front of the screen, awakening a V-board on the desk (real wood: identity thieves, Nigeria).

"Here, look. I’ve solved the problem with the ballast tanks, see?"

Then with a smooth three-finger combination, he activated the scrambler that Vishby had smuggled in for him. The scrambler was an organic wafer, which had been grown in the Atlantis branch of the now defunct Koboi Labs. The scrambler was a reject lifted from the trash, which had merely needed a dab of silicon to get it operational.

There is so much waste in industry, Turnball had sighed to Vishby. Is it any wonder we’re in the middle of a resource crisis?

The tiny scrambler was vital to Turnball because it made everything else possible. Without it he would have no link to the off-site computer; without it, the authorities here in the Deeps would be able to record every stroke of his keyboard and see exactly what he was really working on.

Turnball tapped the screen. It was split into two sections. One showed a recording from a few hours ago: an arena packed with mesmerized humans crawling all over each other. The second a real-time bot’s-eye view of a burning shuttle craft on an icy tundra.

"One tank is gone and the other is an indulgence, so I will outsource rather than waste any more time on it."

"Good thinking," said Vishby, who for the first time was beginning to understand that land dwellers’ phrase in over one’s head.

Turnball Root rested his chin on one hand in the fashion of an elderly actor posing for his headshot. "Yes, Mr. Vishby. Very soon now my model shall be complete. Already one of the major parts is on its way down here, and when that arrives, there won’t be a fairy left in Atlantis . . . Eh, that is, there won’t be a fairy left undazzled by my model."

It was a feeble cover-up, he knew. Was undazzled even a word? But no need for panic, as nobody watched him anymore. They hadn’t for years. He was no longer seen as a threat. The world in general had forgotten the disgraced Captain Turnball Root. Those who knew him now found it difficult to believe that this shabby old-timer could really be as dangerous as his file said he was.

It’s Opal Koboi this, and Opal Koboi that, Turnball often thought bitterly. Well, we’ll see who breaks out of this place first.

Turnball banished the screen with a click of his fingers. "Onward and outward, Vishby. Onward and outward."

Vishby smiled suddenly, which with sea elves was accompanied by a slurping noise as they pulled their tongue back to make way for teeth. In fact, smiling was an unnatural expression for sea elves, and they only did it to let others know how they were feeling.

"Oh, good news, Turnball. I got my pilot’s licence back finally after the Mulch Diggums escape."

"Good for you, sir."

Vishby had been one of Mulch Diggums’s escorts when he escaped from the LEP. All sub-shuttle crew were required to hold a pilot’s qualification, in case the primary pilot became incapacitated.

"Just for emergency trips. But in a year or two I’ll be back in rotation."

"Well, much as I know how you long to pilot a submarine again, let’s hope there are no emergency evacuations, eh?"

Vishby approximated a wink, which was difficult, as he didn’t have any eyelids and would have to give himself a spray soon to wash off the accumulated grit on his lower lid. His version of a wink was to tilt his head jauntily to one side.

"Emergency evacuations. No, we wouldn’t want that."

Eye grit, thought Turnball. Disgusting. And: This fish boy is about as subtle as a steamroller with a siren on top. I’d better change the subject in case someone does happen to glance at the security monitors. It would be just my luck.

"So, Mr. Vishby. No mail for me today, I assume?"

"Nope. No mail for the umpteenth day in a row."

Turnball rubbed his hands in the manner of one with urgent business. "Well, then. I must not keep you from your duties, and I myself have some modeling to do. I impose a schedule on myself, you see, and that must be adhered to."

"Right you are, Turnball," said Vishby, who had long since forgotten that he should be the one doing the dismissing, not the other way around. "Just wanted to let you know I had my licence back. Because that was in my schedule."

Turnball’s smile never wavered, and he kept it bright by promising himself that he would dispose of this fool the second he was no longer of any use.

"Good. Thanks for coming by."

Vishby was almost fully through the hatch before he turned to drop another clanger.

"Here’s hoping we don’t have an emergency evacuation, eh, Captain Root?"

Turnball moaned internally.

Captain. Now he calls me Captain.

Vatnajökull; Now

The new guy, Orion Fowl, was checking his hosiery.

"No compression socks," he declared. "I have been on several plane journeys over the past few weeks, yet Artemis never wears compression socks. And I know he is aware of deep-vein thrombosis; he simply chooses to ignore the risks."

This was Orion’s second rant in as many minutes, the last one detailing Artemis’s use of nonhypoallergenic deodorant, and Holly was growing tired of listening.

"I could sedate you," she said brightly, as if this were the most reasonable course of action. "We slap a pad on your neck and leave you at the restaurant for the humans. End of hosiery discussion."

Orion smiled kindly. "You wouldn’t do that, Captain Short. I could freeze to death before help arrived. I am an innocent. Also, you have feelings for me."

"An innocent!" spluttered Holly, and it took an especially outlandish statement to make her splutter. "You are Artemis Fowl! For years, you were public enemy number one."

"I am not Artemis Fowl," protested Orion. "I share his body and his knowledge of the Gnommish tongue, among other things, but I have a completely different personality. I am what is known as an alter ego."

Holly snorted. "I don’t think that defense will stand up in front of a tribunal."

"Oh, it does," said Orion happily. "All the time."

Holly wormed up the slide of wafer slop to the lip of the crater in which the small band sheltered.

"No signs of hostiles. They appear to have descended into the underground craters."

"Appear?" said Foaly. "Can’t you be a little more specific?"

Holly shook her head. "No. I’m on eyes only. All our instruments are out. We have no link outside our own local network. I would guess that the probe is blocking communications."

Foaly was busy grooming himself, peeling long strings of gluey nano-wafers from his flank. "It’s designed to emit a broad-spectrum jammer if it’s under attack, knocking out communications and weapons. I’m surprised Artemis’s cannon fired, and I would imagine your guns have been isolated by now, and shut down."

Holly checked her Neutrino. Dead as a doornail. There was nothing on her helmet readout either except a slowly revolving red skull icon, which signaled catastrophic systems failure.

"D’Arvit," she hissed. "No weapons, no communications. How are we supposed to stop this thing?"

The centaur shrugged. "It’s a probe, not a battleship. It should be easy enough to destroy once radar picks it up. If this is some mastermind’s plot to destroy the fairy world, then he’s not much of a mastermind."

Orion raised a finger. "I feel I should point out, correct me if Artemis is misremembering, but didn’t your instruments dismally fail to pick up this probe in the first place?"

Foaly scowled. "I was just starting to like you a little better than the other one."

Holly stood erect. "We need to follow the probe.

Work out where it’s going and somehow get word through to Haven."

Orion smiled. "You know, Miss Holly, you look very dramatic like that, backlit by the fire. Very attractive, if I may say so. I know you shared a moment passionné with Artemis, which he subsequently fouled up with his typical boorish behavior. Let me just throw something out there for you to consider while we’re chasing the probe: I share Artemis’s passion but not his boorishness. No pressure; just think about it."

This was enough to elicit a deafening moment of silence even in the middle of a crisis, which Orion seemed to be blissfully unaffected by.

Foaly was the first to speak. "What’s that look you have on your face there, Commander Short? What’s going through your head right now? Don’t think about it, just tell me."

Holly ignored him, but that didn’t stop the centaur talking.

"You had a moment of passion with Artemis Fowl?" he said. "I don’t remember reading that in your report."

Holly may have been blushing, or it may have been the aforementioned dramatic backlighting. "It wasn’t in my report, okay? Because there was no moment of passion."

Foaly didn’t give up so easily. "So nothing happened, Holly?"

"Nothing worth talking about. When we went back in time, my emotions got a little jumbled. It was temporary, okay? Can we please focus? We are supposed to be professionals."

"Not me," said Orion cheerily. "I’m just a teenager with hormones running wild. And may I say, young fairy lady, they’re running wild in your direction."

Holly lifted her visor and looked the hormonal teenager in the eye. "This had better not be a game, Artemis. If you do not have some serious psychosis, you will be sorry."

"Oh, I’m crazy, all right. I do have plenty of psychoses," said Orion cheerily. "Multiple personality, delusional dementia, OCD. I’ve got them all, but most of all, I’m crazy about you."

"That’s not a bad line," muttered Foaly. "He is definitely not Artemis."

Holly stamped the slush from her boots. "We have two objectives: first, we need to hide evidence of fairy technology, i.e. the shuttle, from curious humans until such time as we can send a LEPretrieval team to haul it below. And our second objective is to somehow stay on the tail of that probe and get a message through to Police Plaza that it’s up here." She glanced sharply at Foaly. "Could this be a simple malfunction?"

"No," said the centaur with absolute certainty. "And I say that with absolute certainty. That probe has been deliberately reprogrammed, the amorphobots too. They were never meant to be used as weapons."

"Then we have an enemy. Police Plaza needs to be warned."

Holly turned to Orion. "Well, any ideas?"

The boy’s eyebrows rose a notch. "Bivouac?"

Holly rubbed the spot on her forehead where a headache had just blossomed.

"Bivouac. Fabulous."

From behind came a sudden wrenching noise as the shuttle sank a little lower in the ice like a defeated warrior.

"You know," mused Foaly, "that ship is pretty heavy and the rock shelf there is not very—"

Before he could finish, the entire shuttle disappeared into the landscape, taking the restaurant with it, as though both had been swallowed by a subterranean kraken.

Seconds later, Artemis’s Ice Cube nano-wafer cannon tumbled into the newborn chasm.

"That was incredibly quiet," said Orion. "If I hadn’t seen it, I would never have known."

"This terrain is like dwarf cheese. Full of holes," said Holly, then she was up and gone, racing across the ice toward the new crater.

Orion and Foaly took their time strolling across the glacier, chatting amiably.

"On the plus side," said Foaly, "there’s our first objective achieved. The evidence is gone."

Orion nodded, then asked, "Dwarf cheese?"

"Cheese made by dwarfs."

"Oh," said Orion, relieved. "They make it. It’s not actually . . ."

"No. What a horrible thought."

"Exactly."

The hole in the surface of the ice revealed a cavernous underworld. A subterranean river pulsed along, tearing shreds from what was left of the Great Skua restaurant. The water was deep blue and moving with such power that it almost seemed alive. Great chunks of ice, some the size of elephants, sheared away from the banks, tumbled against the current, and then submitted to its will, gathering speed until they struck the building, pulverizing what was left. The only sound was one of raging water; the building seemed to surrender without a whimper.

The shuttle had become impaled on an ice ridge below a slight bank in the underground river. An ice bank that could not survive the pounding waters for long. The craft was stripped down by the brute force of nature until only a small section remained, an obsidian arrowhead jammed point down into the ice and rock.

"The shuttle’s escape pod," shouted Holly. "Of course."

Objective two, staying on the probe’s tail, was now actually possible. If they could board the pod, and if the pod still had any power in it, they would be able to follow the probe and try to get a message to LEP headquarters.

Holly tried to scan the small craft with her helmet, but her beams were still blocked.

She turned to the centaur. "Foaly? What do you think?"

Foaly did not need her question explained. There was only one thing to think about: the escape pod wedged into the ice below them.

"Those things are damn near indestructible and built to hold the entire crew in a pinch. Also, the power source is a solid fuel block, so there aren’t many moving parts to go wrong. All the usual modes of communication are on board, plus a good old-fashioned radio, which our secret enemy might not have thought to block, though considering he thought to phase the probe’s shield to repulse our own sensors, I doubt there’s much he didn’t think of."

Holly lay down and wiggled forward until her torso hung over the rim, spray from the subterranean river painting a sheen on her visor.

"So that’s our way out, if we can make it down."

Foaly clopped his front hooves. "We don’t all have to make it down. Some of us are a tad less nimble than others, those with hooves for example. You could hop on down there, then fly the pod back up to collect the rest of us."

"That makes perfect sense," said Orion. "But I should be the one to go. Chivalry demands that I take the risk."

Foaly scowled. "Come on, Holly. Please sedate this deluded idiot."

Orion cleared his throat. "You are not being very sensitive to my illness, centaur."

Holly seriously considered the sedation, then shook her head. "Artemis . . . Orion is right. One of us should go."

Holly unraveled a piton cord from the reel on her belt, quickly wrapping it around one of the exposed steel rods in the restaurant’s foundations.

"What are you doing?" asked Orion.

Holly strode briskly to the hole. "What you were going to do in about five seconds’ time."

"Haven’t you read the classics?" shouted Orion. "I should go."

"That’s right," she said. "You should go." And she hopped into the underground cavern.

Orion made an animalistic noise, if the animal were a tiger having its tail tied in a knot, and he actually stamped his foot.

"Wow," said Foaly. "Foot stamping. You are really angry."

"It would seem so," said Orion, peering over the edge.

"Generally, the foot stamping is on the other foot, as you are usually the one driving Holly crazy. The other you."

"I can’t say I’m surprised," said Orion, calming somewhat. "I can be insufferable."

The youth lay flat on the ice.

"You’re on a good line, Holly," he said, almost to himself. "You should definitely miss that big wall of ice."

"I doubt it," grunted Foaly, and, as it turned out, the centaur was right.

Captain Short went down faster than she would have liked, which was totally due to equipment malfunction. If the reel at her belt had not been damaged during the recent amorphobot attack, then it would have automatically slowed her descent, and Holly could have avoided the impact that was surely to come. As it was, she was more or less falling at full g with nothing to lessen her impact other than a slight tension from the piton line.

A thought flashed through Holly’s mind even faster than the ice could flash past her head.

I hope nothing breaks; I have no magic left to fix it.

Then she crashed into the ice wall with her knees and elbows. It was harder than rock and sharper than glass, cutting her uniform as though it were paper. Cold and pain jittered along her limbs, and there was a cracking noise, but it was surface ice and not bones.

The wall sloped gradually to the bank of the underground glacier run-off river, and Holly Short slid down helplessly, tumbling end over end, landing feetfirst through sheer luck. The final gasp of air huffed from her lungs as the shock of impact traveled along her legs. She prayed for a spark of magic, but nothing came to take away the pain.

Get a move on, soldier, she told herself, imagining Julius Root giving the order.

She scrambled across the ice bank, seeing her own distorted reflection in the ice stare wild-eyed back at her, like a desperate swimmer trapped under a skating pond.

Look at that face. I could use a day in a sludge-immersion tank, she thought.

Usually the idea of spending time in a relaxation spa would horrify Holly, but today it seemed a most attractive prospect.

Regeneration sludge and cucumber eye pads. Lovely.

No point dreaming about it now, though. There was work to be done.

Holly scrambled to the escape pod. The river rushed past, pounding the fuselage, hammering cracks in the ice.

I hate the cold. I really hate it.

Mist rose in freezing clouds from the water, draping a spectral blue tent over the massive stalactites.

Spectral blue tent? thought Holly. Maybe I should write a poem. I wonder what rhymes with crushed?

Holly kicked at the ice clustered at the pod’s base, clearing the hatch, thankful that the doorway wasn’t completely submerged, as, without her Neutrino, she would have no way to clear it.

The captain channeled all the day’s frustrations into the next few minutes of furious kicking. Holly stamped on that ice as though it had somehow been responsible for blowing up the shuttle, as though its crystals were somehow to blame for the probe’s attack. Whatever the source of Holly’s strength, her efforts bore fruit, and soon the hatch’s outline was visible beneath a transparent sheath of mashed ice.

A voice floated down from above. "Helloooo. Holly. Are you okay?"

There was another phrase at the end. Muffled. Could this Orion person have called her fair lady again? Holly fervently hoped not.

"I . . . am . . . .fine!" she grunted, each word punctuated with another blow to the shell of ice.

"Try not to become too stressed," said the echoing voice. "Do a few breathing exercises."

Unreal, thought Holly. This guy has lived in the back of Artemis’s head for so long that he has no idea how to handle the actual world.

She wormed her fingers into the recessed handle grip, flicking away tenacious clots of ice blocking the handle. The hatch was purely mechanical, so there was no problem with jammers, but that did not necessarily hold for the pod’s controls. The rogue probe could theoretically have fried the pod’s guidance systems just as easily as it had taken out their communications.

Holly planted a boot on the hull and hauled the hatch open. A deluge of pink disinfectant gel poured out, pooling around her second boot, and quickly evaporated to mist.

Disinfectant gel. In case whatever destroyed the shuttle had been bacterial.

She poked her head inside, and the motion sensors heated a couple of phosphorescent plates on the roof panels.

Good. Emergency power, at least.

The escape pod was totally inverted, pointed straight down to the center of the Earth. The interior was Spartan and made with soldiers in mind, not passengers.

Orion is going to love this, she thought, strapping herself into the pilot’s harness. There were six separate belts in the harness, as this ship had little in the way of gyroscopes or suspension.

Maybe I can shake Artemis out of his own brain. We can count up to five together.

She flexed her fingers, then allowed them to hover above the control panel.

Nothing happened. No activation, no sudden heads-up controls. No icon asking her for a start code.

Stone age it is, thought Holly, and leaned forward to the limits of her harness, reaching underneath the console for a good old-fashioned steering wheel and manual propulsion controls.

She pressed the ignition plunger, and the engine coughed.

Come on. I have things to do.

One more press and the escape pod’s pitiful engine caught and turned over, irregular as a dying man’s breathing, but it turned over nevertheless.

Thank you.

Holly thought this just before jets of black smoke blurted through the vents into the cabin, making her splutter.

There’s some damage, but we should be okay.

Holly cranked open the for’ard porthole and was alarmed by the view that was suddenly revealed. She had expected to see the blue waters of a subterranean river splashing across the transparent polymer, but instead she saw an abyss. The pod had punched into a vast underground cavern that seemed to run right through the glacier in a dizzyingly sheer drop toward the bedrock below. Rippling walls of ice stretched below her, illuminated by the distant flickering blue lights of the probe’s engines as it made its way into the depths of the cavern.

There it is. Heading down.

Holly hit the thaw button for the fuel block and tapped her fingers impatiently while it heated up.

"What I need now," she muttered to herself, "is reverse. And quickly."

But reverse did not come soon enough. The glacier river worked its tendrils into the ice ridge supporting the escape pod, and quickly stripped it away. For a moment the probe hung suspended, then it dropped through the hole and fell powerless straight down.

A couple of minutes earlier, the boy who wore Artemis Fowl’s face had been standing on the surface, peering down at Holly Short. Appreciating her labors and admiring her form.

"She’s a feisty one, n’est-ce pas? Look at her battling the elements."

Foaly clopped to his side. "Come on, Artemis. You can’t kid me. What are you up to?"

Orion’s face was smooth. On him, Artemis’s features seemed open and trustworthy. This was a neat trick, as, on Artemis, these same features seemed conniving and almost sinister, some would say sneaky. Indeed, one music teacher did use this term in Artemis’s school report, which was quite an unprofessional thing to do, but in fairness, Artemis had rewired the man’s keyboard so that it would only play "Jingle Bells" no matter what keys were pressed.

"I am not up to anything," said Orion. "I am alive and I am here. That is all. I have Artemis’s memories but not his disposition. I believe that I owe my sudden appearance to what fairies would call an Atlantis Complex."

Foaly wagged a finger. "Nice try, but Atlantis Complex generally manifests itself through compulsion and delusion."

"Stage two."

Foaly took a moment to consult his near photographic memory.

"Atlantis Complex stage two can result in the subject displaying signs of several completely different and distinct personalities."

"And?" prompted Orion.

"Stage two can be initiated by either or both mental trauma or physical shock, typically electrocution."

"Holly shot me. So there we go."

Foaly scraped the snow with a hoof. "That’s the problem with beings of our intellect. We can argue our points of view all day without either gaining a significant advantage. That’s what happens when you’re a genius." The centaur smiled. "Look, I scraped an F for Foaly."

"That is excellent work," said Orion. "Such straight lines. That takes hoof control."

"I know," said Foaly. "It’s a real talent, but there’s no forum for this kind of expression."

Foaly was well aware that he was babbling about hoof drawings in order to distract himself from the current situation. He had often assisted Holly through one crisis or another. But he had rarely been in the field to actually witness these crises occurring.

The video logs never really capture the emotion, he thought. I am scared out of my wits right now, but no helmet-cam footage can convey that.

It scared Foaly that someone had managed to hack his space probe and reprogram the amorphobots. It scared him that this person had no regard for life—fairy, human, or animal. And it totally terrified him that if, gods forbid, Holly was injured or worse, then it would be up to him and this simpering alternate Fowl personality to warn Haven, and he hadn’t the first idea how he was qualified for this job, unless the talents of smart-aleckry and rapid V-board manipulation were somehow called for. Artemis would know what to do, but apparently Artemis wasn’t at home right now.

Foaly realized with a jolt that the current situation was quite close to being his own worst nightmare, especially if it eventually led to Caballine shaving him. Control was very important to Foaly, and here he was stuck on a glacier with a damaged human, watching their only hope of salvation fighting an underground river.

His current worst nightmare was suddenly relegated to second place as the escape pod, with Holly inside it, was suddenly swallowed whole by the ice. Loose chunks tumbled quickly to fill the hole, and before Foaly had time to gasp in shock, it was as if the craft had never been there.

Foaly sank to his fore-knees. "Holly!" he called desperately. "Holly."

Orion was equally distraught. "Oh, Captain Short.

There was so much I wanted to tell you, about how we feel, Artemis and I. You were so young, with so much left to give." Fat tears rolled down his cheeks. "Oh, Artemis, poor foolish, Artemis. You had so much and did not know it."

Foaly felt hollowed out by sudden, wrenching grief. Holly was gone. Their last best chance of warning Haven. How could he hope to succeed aided only by a mooning Mud Boy who began every second sentence with the word "Oh"?

"Shut up, Orion! Shut up. A person is gone. A real person." The ice was hard beneath Foaly’s knees, and made their situation seem more desperate.

"I don’t have much experience with real people," admitted Orion, slumping beside the centaur. "Or feelings that translate to the world. But I think I am sad now. And lonely. We have lost a friend."

These were words from the heart, and Foaly felt he had to be sympathetic. "Okay. It’s not your fault. We have both lost someone special."

Orion sniffed. "Good. Then, worthy centaur, perhaps you could give me a ride to the village on your back. Then I can make a few pennies with my verses while you build us a shack and perform circus tricks for passersby."

This was such a surprising statement that Foaly briefly considered jumping into the hole to get away.

"This isn’t Middle Earth, you know. We’re not in a novel. I am not noble, neither do I have a repertoire of circus tricks."

Orion seemed disappointed. "Can you juggle at least?"

Orion’s idiocy was just what Foaly needed to shake him temporarily from his grief. He jumped to his feet and stomped in a circle around Orion.

"What are you? Who are you? I thought you shared Artemis’s memories. How can you be so stupid?"

Orion was unperturbed. "I share everything. Memories and movies are as real as each other to me. You, Peter Pan, the Loch Ness Monster, me. It’s all real, maybe."

Foaly rubbed his forehead. "We are in so much trouble. Gods help us."

Orion brightened. "I have an idea."

"Yes?" said Foaly, daring to hope that a spark of Artemis remained.

"Why don’t we look for some magic stones that can grant wishes? Or, if that doesn’t work, you could search my naked body for some mysterious birthmark that means I am actually the prince of somewhere or other."

"Okay," sighed Foaly. "Why don’t you get started on the stones thing, and I’ll scrape some magical runes in the snow."

Orion clapped his hands sharply. "Excellent notion, noble creature." And he began kicking over stones to see if any of them were magical.

The complex is progressing, realized Foaly. He wasn’t this deluded only minutes ago. The more desperate the situation becomes the further from reality he gets. If we can’t get Artemis back soon, he will be gone forever.

"I found one!" Orion shouted suddenly. "A magic stone!" He bent to examine his discovery. "No. Wait. It’s a shellfish of some kind." He smiled apologetically at Foaly. "I saw it scuttling and so I assumed . . ."

Foaly thought a thought he had thought he would never think.

I would prefer to be with Mulch Diggums.

This notion caused him to shudder.

Orion yelped loudly and scuttled backward. "I found it. Really, this time. Look, Foaly. Look!"

Foaly looked, in spite of himself, and was amazed to see that a stone actually did seem to be dancing.

"That’s not possible," he said, and wondered, Is he somehow sucking me into his delusion?

Orion was jubilant. "Everything is real. I am abroad in the world."

The stone flipped high into the air, spinning off across the frozen lake. Where it had been, the black hull of the escape pod punctured the ice. It rose and rose above a bass rumbling of engines that set the ice plates vibrating themselves to pieces.

It took Foaly a moment to realize what was happening, but then he too was jubilant.

"Holly!" he called. "You made it. You didn’t leave us."

The escape pod lurched to the surface, then toppled on its side. The for’ard porthole was winched open, and Holly’s face appeared in the frame. She was pale and bleeding from a dozen minor cuts, but her eyes were bright and determined.

"Took a while for the fuel block to dissolve," she explained over the engine noise. "Get inside, both of you, and buckle up. We have to catch that fire-breathing monster."

This was a simple order, and both Foaly and Orion could obey without their realities clashing.

Holly is alive, thought Foaly.

My princess lives, exulted Orion. And we’re chasing a dragon.

"Foaly," he called after the centaur. "I really think we should search for my secret birthmark. Dragons love that sort of thing."

Artemis Fowl’s Brain; Now

Artemis was not gone completely. He was confined to a small virtual room in his own brain. The room was similar to his Fowl Manor office, but there were no screens on the situations wall. In fact, there was no wall. Where his selection of gas screens and digital televisions had been mounted, there now floated a window into his body’s reality. He could see what the fool Orion saw, and hear the ridiculous sentences dripping from his own mouth, but he could not control the actions of the romantic nincompoop who seemed to be in the driver’s seat, to use a motorcar reference that Butler and Holly would appreciate.

In Artemis’s room there was a desk and a chair. He wore one of his lightweight Zegna bespoke suits. He could see the weave of threads on his arm and feel the material’s weight as though it were real, but Artemis knew all these things were illusions constructed by his mind to put some order on the chaos in his brain.

He sat upon the chair.

In front of Artemis, on what he had decided to call his mind-screen, events played out in the real world. He winced as the usurper, Orion, rolled out his clumsy charm.

He will utterly destroy my relationship with Holly, he thought.

Now he appeared to be treating Foaly like some kind of mythical pet.

Orion was right about one thing: he was in the second stage of Atlantis Complex, a mental illness he had brought on himself through a combination of reckless dabblings in fairy magic and feelings of guilt.

I brought the guilt on myself too, exposing my mother to Opal Koboi.

Artemis realized suddenly that while he was trapped in his own mind, numbers held no sway over him. Neither did he feel any compulsion to rearrange the objects on his desk.

I am free.

A metaphorical weight lifted from his allegorical chest, and Artemis Fowl felt himself again. Vital, sharp, focused, for the first time in months. Ideas fluttered from his mind like bats from the mouth of a cave.

So much to do. So many projects. Butler . . . I need to find him.

Artemis felt energized and potent. He surged from his chair toward the mind-screen. He would push his way through, force his way out, and send this Orion character back to where he came from. Next on his to-do list would be to apologize to Foaly and Holly for his rudeness and then get to the bottom of this space-probe hijack. His Ice Cube had been torn to pieces by the subterranean river, but it could be rebuilt. In months the project could be operational.

And when the glaciers were safe, perhaps he would submit to a little regression therapy from one of the People’s less flamboyant psychotherapists. Certainly not that Cumulus fellow who had his own talk show.

When Artemis reached the screen, he found it to be less solid than it had first appeared. In fact, it was deep and gloopy, reminding Artemis of the plasma conduit he had crawled through at Opal Koboi’s lab all those years ago. Nevertheless, he forged ahead and soon found himself submerged in a cold, viscous gel that pushed him backward with floppy fingers.

"I will not be deterred," shouted Artemis, finding that he could shout inside the mind-screen. "I am needed in the wide world."

And then.

Deterred? Wide world? I am beginning to sound like that idiot Orion.

This thought gave him strength, and he tore at the curtains of gunk that kept him a prisoner. It felt good being active and positive. Artemis felt like the Fowl heir of old. Unstoppable.

Then he spotted something in the air before him. Bright and fizzling like a Halloween sparkler. There were more, dozens, all around him, sinking slowly through the gel.

What were they? What could those things mean?

I made them, thought Artemis. I should know.

A moment later he did know. The fizzling sparklers were actually tiny golden numbers. All the same number.

All fours. Death.

Artemis recoiled, but then rallied.

No. I will not be a slave. I refuse.

A tiny number four grazed his elbow, sending a shock through his entire body.

This is a memory, nothing more. My mind is reconstructing the plasma conduit. None of this is real.

But the shocks felt real. Once the tiny fours realized that he was there, they gathered like a shoal of malignant fish, herding Artemis back to the safety of his office.

He fell backward to the floor, panting.

I need to try again, he thought.

But not yet. The fours seemed to watch him, matching his movements.

Five, thought Artemis. I need five to stay alive. I will try again soon. Soon.

Artemis felt a weight settle on his chest that seemed too heavy to be just his imagination.

I will try soon. Hold on, my friends.





CHAPTER 6

TRIMMING THE WEIGHT

The Deeps, Atlantis; Now

Prisoner 42 checked the LEP’s official site and was amused to see that he was no longer on the Top Ten Most Dangerous list.

They forget what I have done, he thought with some satisfaction. Which is exactly as I planned.

Turnball sent a quick V-mail to Leonor, one of the dozen he sent daily.

Prepare yourself for travel, darling. I shall be with you soon.

He waited breathlessly for the reply, and it soon came. A single word.

Hurry.

Turnball was cheered by the prompt response: even after all these years they hung on each other’s words.

But he was a little worried too. Lately, all of Leonor’s messages had been brief, often no more than a phrase. He did not believe that his darling wife was not inclined to write more—he believed that she grew too weak, the effort was too painful.

Turnball sent a second mail to Ark Sool, an LEP turncoat he had recently employed to make sure his wife and affairs were well looked after.

Leonor grows weaker without my fairy magic beside her, Mr. Sool. Take special care.

Turnball grew suddenly impatient.

Mere hours separate us, my dear. Hold on for me.

The authorities were mistaken, of course. Turnball Root was extremely dangerous. They had forgotten he was the elf who had stolen millions from the LEP’s own weapons’ budget. The elf who had almost managed to destroy half of Haven City just to get rid of a competitor.

I would have done it too, he thought for the thousandth time. If not for my holier-than-thou little brother.

He banished this thought. Thinking about Julius would just get his vitals up, and the jailers might notice.

I should give myself a little treat, he thought, sitting down at his terminal. It could be the last one before I go. Vishby will come for me soon, and then the LEP will realize their mistake. Too late, of course.

He smiled at his reflection on the screen as he typed a brief message for a certain Web site.

One is never too old for mischief, Turnball realized as he pressed send.

The Sozzled Parrot, Miami; Now

It is a universal law that fugitives flock together. No matter how large the posse on their tail, people on the run always manage to find that one low-down dirty dive, with the cheapest hooch, run by the dodgiest innkeeper, that not even the police know about. These establishments generally have steel doors, paint over their windows, mold in their bathroom stalls, and don’t serve anything with more than two ingredients. The Sozzled Parrot was such a place.

The owner was a certain dwarf called Barnet Riddles who ruled the roost with a certain wheedling panache that made him a likeable host in a sleazy sort of way. And if wheedling panache was not enough to calm a troublemaker down, then Barnet would follow it with a tap from a stolen LEP buzz baton.

The Sozzled Parrot was a dwarf hangout, and the club motto was: If you are not welcome there, then you are welcome here, which meant that every exiled criminal or slumming fairy in North America sooner or later turned up at The Sozzled Parrot. Barnet Riddles made the perfect host, as, by some freak of nature, he was one of only a tiny percentage of fairies who were over four feet tall. And so, as long as he wore a bandanna to cover his ears, Barnet was the ideal go-between with the humans, who supplied him with liquor, slightly turned beef for his quesadillas, and as much firepower as he could shift out of the back room.

The early hours of this morning in The Sozzled Parrot were pretty much the same as any other. Dwarfs sat hunched over tankards of ale in one of the booths. A couple of sprites were playing video crunchball on their handhelds, and half a dozen elfin soldiers of fortune were trading war stories by the pool table.

Barnet Riddles was deep in conversation with a dwarf at the bar.

"Come on, Tombstone," he wheedled in a charming way. "Buy a couple of guns. A grenade at least. All you do is sit there and drink creek water. Isn’t there someone you’d like to shoot a couple of times?"

The dwarf grinned, baring his trademark tombstone teeth. "It’s getting that way, Riddles."

Barnet was not discouraged—then again this particular dwarf was a born optimist. Who else would set up a bar for photosensitive dwarfs in sunny Miami?

It’s the last place the Leppers will look for us fugitives from justice, he often explained. They’re up freezing their LEP tails off in Russia, meanwhile we’re sinking beers here in luxurious air-conditioned surroundings.

Luxurious was a stretch. Even clean would have been a stretch. But The Sozzled Parrot was somewhere for fairy soldiers of fortune to meet and exchange war stories day or night, and so they were prepared to put up with Barnet’s exorbitant prices and his constant sales pitches.

"How about a computer implant?" persisted the innkeeper. "Everybody has implants these days. How do you keep tabs on the LEP?"

Tombstone pulled down the brim of his felt hat so that it covered his eyes. "Believe it or not, Riddles, I’m not on the hot list anymore. What you are looking at now is a one hundred percent legit citizen. Heck, I’ve even got a visa to be aboveground."

"Groomchunks," said Barnet doubtfully.

Tombstone slid a plastic square across the bar. "Read it and weep."

Barnet squinted at the Gnommish writing and checked the official hologram.

"Looks pretty real," he admitted.

"That is because it is real, my beer-watering friend."

Barnet shook his head. "I don’t get it. If you can be anywhere, why are you here?"

Tombstone tossed a handful of beezel nuts into his cavernous mouth, and Barnet swore that after each crunch there was an echo.

"I am here," said Tombstone eventually, "because of the clientele."

Barnet was even more befuddled. "What? Thieves, mercenaries, extortionists, and forgers?"

Tombstone’s grin was wide and bright. "Yep. My kind of people."

Barnet checked on a pitcher of toad sludge that he was fermenting for the pixies.

"You are a riot, Tombstone. Do you know that?"

Before Tombstone could answer, a plastic parrot on the bar opened its beak and squawked.

"New post," squawked its animatronic mouth. "New post on the message board."

"Excuuuuuse me," said Barnet Riddles, with exaggerated politeness, "while I check this extremely handy implant I have in my head."

"Handy, until you pass a microwave and lose ten years of memory," commented Tombstone. "Then again, you spend so much time in here that you probably wouldn’t miss the odd decade."

Barnet was not listening. His eyes fogged over as he checked the illegal implant that had been hotwired directly into his cortex by a disbarred doctor. After a couple of "hmmms" and one "really," he returned to the here and now.

"How are the brain cells?" enquired Tombstone mildly. "I hope the message was worth it."

"Don’t you worry about it, Mr. Hundred Percent Legit," said Barnet briskly. "This one is for us criminals."

He pounded the bar with his buzz baton, sending sparks rippling across the length of the brass rail.

"Cruik," he called across the room. "You have a ship? Right?"

One of the dwarfs at the end booth raised a grizzled head. Beer foam fell in blobs from his beard. "Yeah. I got a gyro. A bit of a crock, but she runs okay."

Barnet clapped his hands, already counting his commission. "Good. A job came in on the board. Two humans, kill ’em dead."

Cruik shook his head slowly. "No killing dead. We may be criminals but we’re not humans."

"The client will accept a full wipe. Can you stomach that?"

"Full wipe?" interrupted Tombstone. "Isn’t that dangerous?"

Barnet sniggered. "Not if you keep your fingers away from the electrodes. Two humans, brother and sister by the name of Butler."

Tombstone twitched. "Butler? Brother and sister?"

Barnet closed one eye, consulting his implant. "Yeah. I’m shooting the details across to your gyro, Cruik. This is a rush job. Top dollar, as the Mud Men would say."

The dwarf called Cruik checked the charge in an old-fashioned blunderbuss Neutrino.

"These Mud Men won’t be saying much of anything by the time I’m finished with them." He pounded the table to summon his warriors. "Let’s go, my fine fellows. We have brains to suck."

Tombstone stood quickly. "Do you guys have room for one more?"

"I knew it," chuckled Barnet Riddles. "One hundred percent legit, I don’t think so. As soon as I laid eyes on you, ‘This guy has history,’ I said."

Cruik was buckling on a belt loaded with spikes, shells, and dangerous-looking implements with fuses and capacitors.

"Why should I take you, stranger?"

"You should take me because if your pilot gets killed to death by these Butler humans, then I can take his place."

An uncharacteristically skinny dwarf looked up from the romance novel he was reading. "Killed to death?" he said, lip trembling slightly. "I say, Cruik, is that likely?"

"I’ve had experience with the Butlers," said Tombstone. "They always go for the pilot first."

Cruik sized up Tombstone, taking in his powerful jaws and muscled legs.

"Okay stranger. You take the copilot’s chair. You get a junior share and no quibbling."

Tombstone grinned. "Why quibble now when we can quibble later?"

Cruik thought about this statement for a moment until his brain ached.

"Okay. Whatever. Everybody take a sober pill and mount up. We have some humans to wipe."

Tombstone followed his new captain across the bar floor. "How good is your mind-wiping equipment?"

Cruik shrugged. "Who cares?" he said simply.

"I like your attitude," said Tombstone.

Cancún, Mexico; Now

The Butlers in question were of course the very same Butlers who had escaped the mesmerized wrestling fans, and who were now, thirty minutes after Cruik took on his new copilot, taking a moment to catch their breath in the morning sunshine on the shore of Cancún’s lagoon. These two were being pursued by Turnball Root more for his own entertainment than the possibility that they could actually interfere with his plans. Though it was possible that opponents as formidable as the Butlers had proved themselves to be troublesome. And Turnball’s plans were delicate enough without adding troublesome humans to the mix. Better to wipe them, at least. Also, they had escaped the first time, so Turnball was irked, which he did not like.

Juliet squatted just above the waterline, listening to the sounds of party laughter and the tinkling of champagne flutes stream across the water from a passing yacht. "I have an idea, brother," she said. "Why don’t we ask Artemis for a million dollars and just retire? Well, I could retire. You could be my butler."

Butler sat beside her. "Frankly, I don’t think Artemis has a million dollars. He’s put everything into this latest project. THE PROJECT, as he calls it."

"What’s he stealing now?"

"Nothing. Artemis has moved on from crime. These days he’s saving the world."

Juliet’s arm froze halfway through the motion of throwing a pebble. "Artemis Fowl has moved on from crime? Our Artemis Fowl? Isn’t that against Fowl family law?"

Butler didn’t exactly smile, but his scowl definitely grew less pronounced. "This is hardly the time for jokes, sister." He paused. "But if you must know, the Fowl statutes actually state that a family member caught straying onto the straight and narrow can have his Doctor Evil manual and suction cups confiscated."

Juliet snickered. "Suction cups."

Butler’s customary scowl quickly reasserted itself. "Seriously, sister. This is a sinister situation we find ourselves in. Pursued by fairy agents and on the far side of the world from my principal."

"What are you even doing here? Who sent you on this wild-goose chase?"

Butler had been thinking about this. "Artemis sent me. He must have been coerced, though it didn’t seem so. Perhaps he was tricked."

"Tricked? Artemis Fowl? He has changed."

Butler frowned, patting the spot where his shoulder holster would normally hang. "Artemis has changed. You would barely recognize him now, he is so different."

"Different? How?"

Butler’s frown deepened, a slash between his eyebrows. "He counts everything. Steps, words, everything. I think five is the big number. Also, rows. He groups all the stuff around him into little rows. Usually five per row, or ten."

"I’ve heard about stuff like that. Obsessive-compulsive disorder. OCD."

"And he’s paranoid. He doesn’t trust anyone." Butler’s head dropped to his chest. "Not even me."

Juliet tossed the pebble far into the lagoon. "It sounds like Artemis needs help."

Butler nodded. "How about you? You’ve had quite a bit sprung on you in the past hour."

Juliet raked the shoreline with her fingers, gathering pebbles. "What? You mean little things like being chased by a mesmerized horde? And the fact that fairies do exist? Those tiny things?"

Butler grunted. He had forgotten how much his sister made fun of him and how he, for some reason, put up with it. "Yes, those tiny things," he said, elbowing her fondly.

"Don’t worry about me, brother. I’m a modern woman. We’re tough and smart, hadn’t you heard?"

"I get it. You’re coping, is that it?"

"No, brother. I feel fine. The Butlers are together, and nothing can stand against us."

"The new memories aren’t freaking you out?"

Juliet laughed, and the sound did Butler’s heart good. "Freaking me out? Where are we, the 1970s? And, no, the memories aren’t freaking me out. As a matter of fact, they feel . . ." She thought about her next sentence for a while. "They feel right in my head. They belong where they are. How could I have forgotten Holly? Or Mulch?"

Butler pulled a pair of sunglasses from his jacket pocket. They were a little clunkier than the current style, and had tiny solar panels on the arms.

"With fairies on our tail, we may need these." Juliet plucked them from his fingers, and the stimulus from the contact brought memories flooding back.

Artemis made these from disassembled LEP helmets, so we could see through Fairy shields. The LEP are sneaky, but Artemis is sneakier.

"I remember these glasses. Why did you even bring them?"

"Boy Scout rule number one: Be prepared. There are fairies around us all the time. I don’t want to accidentally shoot one, or miss one, for that matter."

Juliet hoped her brother was being funny.

"You wouldn’t shoot a fairy," said Juliet, slipping the glasses onto her face.

Immediately, something appeared in her vision as though it had popped out of a toaster. The something was certainly not human. It hung suspended from a harness and was aiming a bulbously barreled weapon at her head. Whatever it was wore a bodysuit that seemed to be made of a viscous tarlike substance, which clung to its wobbling torso and coated every hair of its shaggy beard.

"Shoot the fairy!" she yelped, shocked. "Shoot it!"

Most people might have assumed that Juliet was joking. After all, what were the chances that a fairy would show up the very moment she donned fairy filters? Not to mention the fact that Juliet was well known for her inappropriate sense of humor and regularly spouted witticisms in moments of mortal danger.

For example, when Christian Varley Penrose, her sous instructor at the Madame Ko Agency, lost his grip on the north face of Everest and went plummeting earthward with only a skinny girl between him and certain death, Juliet braced herself and called to her sensei as he pinwheeled past: "Hey, Penrose. Surely saving you is worth some extra credit."

So it would be quite reasonable to assume that when Juliet yelled Shoot the fairy she was actually joshing her big brother, but Butler did not assume this for a second. He was trained to recognize stress registers, but even if Artemis hadn’t forced him to listen to that MP3 lecture in the car, he knew the difference between genuinely shocked Juliet and having a laugh Juliet. So when Juliet cried Shoot the fairy, Butler decided on a course of aggressive action in the time it would take a hummingbird to flap its wings.

No gun, so no shooting, he thought. But there are options.

The option Butler chose was to grasp his sister’s shoulder firmly and push her sideways so that she actually skidded along the pebbled beach, her shoulder plowing a furrow in the stones.

Scratched shoulder. I’ll be hearing about that for weeks.

Butler swung both arms forward and used the momentum to pull himself up and into a full-tilt launch at whatever had spooked Juliet. At this point he could only hope that the whatever was close enough to grapple, otherwise there was a fairy somewhere laughing into his face mask and calmly aiming a weapon.

His luck held. Butler made contact with something squat and lumpy. Something that struggled and bucked like a pig in a blanket, and exuded a particular odor that a person might experience if that person were unfortunate enough to somehow end up facedown in a medieval swill patch.

I know that smell, Butler realized, holding on grimly. Dwarf.

Whatever was holding the dwarf up whined and dipped, dunking Butler and his wriggling captive into the lagoon’s waist-high water. For Butler, the dunking was harmless enough—he was virtually clamped around the invisible dwarf, and in fact the cool water felt quite refreshing—but for the shimmer-suited fairy, the sudden dip was catastrophic. Abrasive contact with the sharp scree on the lagoon bed punctured his camouflage suit, breaking the skin, releasing the charge.

The dwarf, Cruik, was suddenly visible.

"Aha," said Butler, hauling Cruik from the surf. "Dwarf head. Good."

Cruik had forfeited his gift of tongues along with the rest of his magic, but he had been living among the humans for long enough to pick up a smattering of several languages, and Butler’s simple statement was terrifyingly easy to misinterpret.

Dwarf head? This Mud Man is going to eat my head.

Butler was actually glad to see the dwarf’s head because dwarf heads are disproportionately large, and this particular dwarf’s head was even more bulbous than most. It was almost Butler-sized and there was a helmet perched on top of it.

With a fairy helmet, I can see what this little guy sees.

It was the helmet Butler was after, not the meaty noggin inside.

"C’mere, slippy," grunted the bodyguard, intuitively snapping the helmet’s seals and popping it off. "Did you just try to shoot my sister?"

Recognizing the word shoot, Cruik glanced down at his own hands and was dismayed to find them empty. He had dropped his gun.

Cruik was a career criminal and had lived through many close calls without losing his nerve. He had once faced down a gang of drunken goblins armed with only a jar of burn lotion and three bottle tops, but this bloodthirsty giant with a face of fury and a thirst for brains finally sent him over the edge.

"Nooooo," he screamed shrilly. "No brain biting."

Butler ignored the tantrum and the musty helmet pong and gripped the protective hat one-handed, as a basketball player might grip a basketball.

Cruik’s skull was now totally exposed, and the dwarf swore he could feel his brain trembling.

When a dwarf finds himself unnerved to this extent, one of two things is likely to happen: one, the dwarf will unhook his jaw and attempt to eat its way out of trouble. This option was not available to Cruik because of his suit’s hood. And two: the terrified dwarf will trim the weight. Trimming the weight is an aviators’ trick, which involves jettisoning as much unnecessary cargo as possible to keep the ship in the air. Dwarfs are capable of shedding up to a third of their body weight in less than five seconds. This is obviously a last resort and can only be performed once a decade or so. It involves a rapid expulsion of loose-layered runny fat, ingested mining dirt, and gases through what dwarf mommies politely refer to as the nether tunnel.

Trimming the weight is mostly an automatic response and will be engaged when the heart rate nudges past two hundred beats per minute, which happened to Cruik the moment Butler enquired whether Cruik had tried to shoot his sister. At that moment, Cruik more or less lost control of his bodily functions and had just time to scream "No brain biting!" before his body decided to trim the weight and use the resulting propulsion to get the heck out of there.

Of course, Butler was not aware of these biological details. All he knew was that he was suddenly flying backward, up high through the air, holding on to a jet-powered dwarf.

Not again, he thought, possibly the only human who would have this thought in this situation.

Butler saw Juliet shrinking into the distance, her mouth a shocked dark circle. And to Juliet it seemed as though her brother had suddenly developed the power of flight while wrestling a dwarf clad in a shiny hooded leotard.

I’ll worry about Juliet worrying about me later, thought Butler, trying not to think about the glossy, bubbled stream pushing them farther into the sky and closer to whatever craft they were suspended from. Look out below.

Butler had a more urgent problem than Juliet worrying about him, which he realized upon jamming Cruik’s helmet onto his own head. He and Cruik were coming up on the gyro, fast with no control over their approach. All Cruik could do was yell something about his brain, so it was up to Butler to see them through this alive. Altitude wasn’t the problem. They weren’t high enough to sustain any real damage, especially with a watery mattress below. The problem was the gyro’s rotor blade, which would slice them both into fine strips if they passed through it, then doubtless the gyrocopter would explode and incinerate the slices. The engine was whisper quiet, but a couple of bodies passing through the blade would soon blow the mufflers.

My last act on Earth could be to expose the Fairy People, and there is nothing I can do to prevent it.

Up they went, whooshing backward, wind snagging their clothes, chilling their skin. The dwarf’s eyes were wide and rolling, and his flesh hung in loose flaps.

He was chubby before. I’m sure of it.

The gyro blade was feet away as they whiplashed over the top of the craft and hung suspended for a nanosecond as Cruik finally ran out of nether-tunnel steam.

"Nice timing," snarled Butler, then down they went directly toward the rotors.

Still, thought Butler. Killed saving my sister from a murderous dwarf. It could be worse.

At the last possible moment, the gyro’s rotor swiveled ninety degrees, tilting the craft dramatically, allowing Butler and Cruik to slot into it neatly on the leeward side.

Butler barely had a moment to thank his lucky stars when he was thrust into yet another perilous situation.

There seemed to be some serious fighting going on among an entire gang of dwarves. The passenger bay was littered with unconscious fairies while the three remaining dwarfs were slugging it out, two against one. The one had a bloody nose and a sooty star on his shoulder where someone had tagged him with a Neutrino, but still he seemed quite cheery.

"It’s about time you got here," he said to Butler from the side of his mouth. "These guys are quite angry that I flipped their gyro."

"Tombstone, you collaborator!" howled one of the remaining dwarfs.

"Tombstone?" said Butler, managing to groan and speak at the same time.

"Yeah," said Butler’s old friend Mulch Diggums. "It’s my out-and-about name. And lucky for you I do go out."

The gyro’s stabilizers steadied the craft, and Butler took advantage of the moment’s peace to disentangle himself from Cruik, whom he tossed out of the bay door.

"Ah, Cruik," said Mulch. "Rarely does one meet someone with such a phonetically appropriate name."

Butler wasn’t even listening. If there were a time to engage with Mulch’s ramblings, he hadn’t reached it yet. Instead he turned to the remaining hostile dwarfs.

"You two," he said, treating them to his fiercest expression, an expression which had once made a troll think that maybe he had bitten off a little more than he could chew.

The two in question quailed under Butler’s gaze and wondered anxiously what this giant would order them to do.

Butler jerked a thumb toward the bay door. "Jump," he said, keeping it simple. The dwarfs looked at each other, and the look spoke volumes.

Should we actually jump into daylight, they thought, or should we stay and fight this terrifying man mountain?

They held hands and jumped.

It took mere moments for Mulch to get control of the flight systems and drop the gyro down to scoop up Juliet.

"Hi-ho, Jade Princess," he called from the pilot’s chair. "How’s the wrestling career going? I have an alter ego now too. Tombstone, they call me. What do you think?"

"I like it," said Juliet, kissing Mulch’s cheek. "Thanks for rescuing us."

Mulch smiled. "There was nothing on the TV. Except pay-per-view, and I refuse to buy programs, on principle. Except that chef guy with the foul mouth. I love him and what he can to with a turkey crown and a couple of string beans."

Juliet’s newfound memories reminded her of Mulch’s obsession with food.

"So you just happened to be in a bar when the call came in to these guys?" said Butler doubtfully, throwing some emergency field packs to the stranded dwarfs below.

Mulch tugged the virtual joystick, quickly pulling the gyro into the clouds.

"Yes. It’s fate, my friends. I went against my own kind for you. I hope you appreciate it. Or rather, I hope your rich master appreciates it."

Butler closed the hatch, shutting out the rush of air. "The way I remember it, I did most of the saving."

"All you did was mess up my plan," snorted the dwarf. "I was going to let them stun you both, winch you aboard, and then make my move."

"Brilliant plan."

"As opposed to throwing yourself into the gyro rotor blade?"

"Point taken."

There was silence for a moment, the kind of silence you would definitely not get in a human flying machine. Also the kind of silence you get when a small group of people wonder just how long they can keep emerging from certain-death situations with a reasonable amount of life in their bodies.

"We’re off again, I suppose?" said Mulch eventually.

"Off on another save-the-world, nick-of-time, seat-of-the-pants adventure?"

"Well, in the space of one night we have been attacked by zombie wrestling fans and invisible dwarfs," said Butler glumly. "So it certainly looks like it."

"Where to?" asked Mulch. "Nowhere too sunny, I hope. Or too cold. I hate snow."

Butler found that he was smiling, not with fondness exactly, but not with wolfish menace either.

"Iceland," he said.

The gyro dipped sharply as Mulch momentarily let go of the V-joystick. "If you’re kidding, Butler, that’s not funny."

Butler’s smile disappeared. "No," he said. "It isn’t."





CHAPTER 7

HOW DO I LOVE THEE?

Vatnajökull; Now

Orion Fowl chose to strap himself into the emergency evac harness directly behind Holly and spoke into her ear as she piloted the escape pod through the glacial wormhole excavated by the rogue probe.

Having a person talk directly into one’s ear is irritating at the best of times, but when that person is spouting romantic nonsense while the owner of the ear is attempting to wrestle with the controls of a twenty-year-old escape pod in a high-speed pursuit, then it’s a little more than annoying—it’s dangerously distracting.

Holly scrubbed the porthole with the sleeve of her suit. Outside, a single nose beam picked out the wormhole’s path.

Straight, she thought. At least it’s straight. "How do I love thee?" wondered Orion. "Let me see. I love thee passionately and eternally . . . obviously eternally—that goes without saying."

Holly blinked sweat from her eyes. "Is he serious?" she called over her shoulder to Foaly.

"Oh, absolutely," said the centaur, his voice juddering along with the pod’s motion. "If he asks you to look for birthmarks, say no immediately."

"Oh, I would never," Orion assured her. "Ladies don’t look for birthmarks; that is work for jolly fellows, like the goodly beast and myself. Ladies, like Miss Short, do enough by simply existing. They exude beauty, and that is enough."

"I am not exuding anything," said Holly, through gritted teeth.

Orion tapped her shoulder. "I beg to differ. You’re exuding right now, a wonderful aura. It’s pastel blue with little dolphins."

Holly gripped the wheel tightly. "I’m going to be sick. Did he just say pastel blue?"

"And dolphins, little ones," said Foaly, happy enough to be distracted from the fact that they were now chasing the probe that had blown up their shuttle, which was a bit like a mouse chasing a cat, a giant mutant cat with laser eyes and a bellyful of smaller spiteful cats.

"Be quiet, goodly beast. Be quiet, both of you."

Holly could not afford to be distracted, so to shut out the babbling Orion, she talked herself through what she was doing, recording it all on the ship’s log.

"Still going through the ice, an incredibly thick vein. No radar, or sonar, just following the lights."

The light show on display through the porthole was both eerie and colorful. The probe’s engines shot beams along the carved ice, sending rainbows flickering across the flat planes. Holly was sure she saw an entire school of whales preserved in the glacier, and maybe some kind of enormous sea reptile.

"The probe maintains its course, a diagonal descent. We are transitioning from ice to rock now, with no discernable delay."

It was true: the increased density seemed to have no effect on the probe’s laser cutters.

Foaly could not resist a smug comment. "I know how to build ’em," he said.

"But not how to control ’em," Holly rejoined.

"You have displeased the princess," cried Orion, thrashing in his harness. "Were it not for these accursed bonds . . ."

"You would be dead," said Foaly, completing the sentence for him.

"Good point," Orion conceded. "And the princess is calm now, so no harm done, goodly fellow. I must mind my knight’s temper. Sometimes I rush to battle."

Holly’s ears itched, which was purely from stress, she knew, but that didn’t stop them itching.

"We need to cure Artemis," she said, wishing for a free hand to scratch. "I can’t take much more of this."

The rock face flashed by outside in a confusing meld of grays and deep blue. Ash, pulverized stone, and chunks of debris spiraled down the tunnel wall, further impairing Holly’s vision.

She checked the escape pod’s communications station without much hope.

"Nothing. No contact with Atlantis; we’re still blocked. The probe must have seen us by now. Why no aggressive action?"

Foaly squirmed in a harness built for two-legged creatures. "Oh yes, why no aggressive action? How I long for aggressive action."

"I live for aggressive action!" thundered Orion squeakily, which was unusual. "Oh, how I pray that dragon will turn ’round that I may smite it."

"Smite it with what?" wondered Foaly. "Your secret birthmark?"

"Don’t you mock my birthmark, which I may or may not have."

"Shut up, both of you," snapped Holly. "The light’s changed. Something is coming."

Foaly smooshed his cheek against the rear porthole. "Ah yes. I expected that."

"What did you expect?"

"Well, we must be below sea level by now, so what’s coming would be a great big bit of ocean. Now we’ll see just how well I did design that probe."

The light bouncing off the tunnel wall had suddenly become dull and flickering, and a huge booming whoomph vibrated through the pod’s walls. Even Orion was struck dumb as a solid tube of water surged upward toward them.

Holly knew from her training that she should relax her muscles and ride the impact, but every cell in her body wanted to tense up before contact.

Keep the nose straight, she told herself. Cut through the surface. Underneath is calm.

The water closed around them like a malevolent fist and shook the pod, battering its occupants. Everything that was not bolted down became a missile. A toolbox gave Foaly a nasty welt, and Orion’s forehead was punctured by a fork that left tiny wounds where it had struck.

Holly swore like a sailor as she battled to keep the nose down, fighting the fury of nature, talking to the pod as though it were an unbroken bronco. A rivet pinged from its housing and ricocheted around the cabin, knocking a sliver from the view screen, sending a web of shining cracks crackling across the glass.

Holly winced. "D’Arvit. Not good. Not good." Orion placed a hand on her shoulder. "At least we take the great adventure together, eh, maiden?"

"Not just yet, we don’t," Holly said, leveling out the rear flaps and punching the craft through the turmoil into the wide, calm ocean.

The view screen held, for the moment, and Holly glared through it, searching for the probe’s telltale engine glare. For several moments she saw nothing out of place in the Atlantic Ocean, but then south-southwest, down ten fathoms or so, she noticed four glowing blue disks.

"There!" she cried. "I see it."

"Shouldn’t we head for the nearest shuttle port?" wondered Foaly. "Try to make contact with Haven?"

"No," replied Holly. "We need to maintain a visual and try to work out where this thing is going. If we lose it, then thanks to your stealth ore, it’s lost, with plenty of water to hide in."

"That’s another jibe, young lady," said Foaly sulkily. "Don’t think I’m not counting."

"Counting," said Orion. "Artemis used to do that."

"I wish we had Artemis now," said Holly grimly. "Fives and all. He would know what to do."

Orion pouted. "But you have me. I can help."

"Let me guess. Bivouac?" Orion’s face was so desolate that Holly relented. "Okay. Listen, Orion, if you really want to help, keep an eye on the com screen. If we get a signal, let me know."

"I shall not fail you, fair maiden," vowed Orion. "This com screen is now my holy grail. I shall wish a signal from its cold heart of wire and capacitors."

Foaly was about to interject and explain how the communications screen had neither wires nor capacitors, but when he saw the poisonous look Holly was shooting him, the centaur decided to keep his mouth closed.

"And you," said Holly, in a tone to match her look, "try to figure out how the great Foaly was circumvented so completely, and maybe then we can get control of that probe before anyone else gets hurt."

That’s another jibe, thought Foaly, but he was wise enough not to say this aloud.

Down and down they went into deeper and darker blue. The probe stuck rigidly to its course, turning aside for neither rock nor reef, seemingly unaware of the tiny escape pod on its tail.

They must see us, thought Holly, pushing the pod to its limits just to keep up. But if the probe had spotted them, it gave no sign, just plowed through the ocean at a constant rate of knots, unswervingly drawing closer to its goal, wherever that was.

Holly had a thought. "Foaly. You have a communicator, don’t you?"

The centaur was sweating in the oxygen-depleted atmosphere, his light blue shirt now mostly dark blue. "Of course I do. I already checked for a signal. Nothing."

"I know, but what kind of mini-programs do you have on there? Anything for navigation?"

Foaly pulled out his phone and scrolled through the mini-programs. "I do have a nav mi-p. All self-contained, no signal needed." The centaur did not need to be told what to do: he unstrapped himself from the harness and laid his phone on an omni-sensor on the dash. Its screen was instantly displayed on a small screen in the porthole.

A 3-D compass appeared, and spent a few seconds plotting the pod’s movements, which Holly made sure were mirroring the probe’s course.

"Okay," said the centaur. "We are locked in. I designed this mi-p, by the way. I earn more from this little wonder than all my LEP work."

"Just tell me."

Foaly dragged a little ship icon along its straight line on the screen until it reached the ocean floor. There was a pulsing red circle at the point of impact.

"That circle is pretty," said Orion.

"Not for long," said Foaly, paling.

Holly took her eyes off the probe for half a second. "Tell me, Foaly. What’s down there?"

The centaur suddenly felt the full weight of his responsibility. Something he had been repressing since the probe’s . . . his probe’s attack.

"Atlantis. My gods, Holly, the probe is headed directly for Atlantis."

Holly’s eyes swiveled back to the four circles of light. "Can it break through the dome?"

"That’s not what it was designed to do."

Holly gave him a moment to think about what he had just said.

"Okay, I admit it’s doing a lot of things it wasn’t designed to do."

"Well, then?"

Foaly made a few calculations on the screen, calculations that Artemis might have understood had he been present.

"It’s possible," he said. "Nothing of the probe would remain intact. But at this speed it might put a crack in the dome."

Holly coaxed a little more speed from the pod. "We need to warn Atlantis. Orion, do we have anything on the communications?"

The pod’s human passenger looked up from the screen. "Not a twitter, princess, but this light is flashing rather urgently. Does it have a special significance?"

Foaly peered over his shoulder. "The hull must have been breached in the tunnel. We’re running out of oxygen."

For a second, Holly’s shoulders slumped. "It doesn’t matter. We keep going."

Foaly cupped both hands around his cranium, holding in the thoughts. "No. Now we try to get outside the probe’s jamming corona. We should run for the surface."

"What if it changes course?"

"Then it won’t hit Atlantis, and nobody will drown or be crushed. And even if it does swing back around, they’ll be ready for it."

It went against Holly’s instincts to run. "I feel like we’re deserting those people down there."

Foaly pointed at the screen. "At that speed, the probe will reach Atlantis in three hours. We’ll run out of oxygen in five minutes. We’ll be unconscious in six, dead in twelve, and no use to anybody."

"I feel a little dizzy," said Orion. "But also wonderfully elated. I feel that I am on the verge of finding a rhyme for the word orange."

"Oxygen deprivation," said Foaly. "Or perhaps it’s just him."

Holly closed down the throttle. "Can we make it?"

Foaly tapped out a complicated equation. "If we go in the opposite direction right now. Maybe. If whoever is doing this has somehow boosted the jammer, then no."

"Maybe is the best you can do?"

Foaly nodded wearily. "The absolute best."

Holly swung the pod around with three deft maneuvers. "Best odds I’ve had all day," she said.

It was a race now, but an unusual one where the competitors were running away from each other. The goal was simple: now that they knew where the probe was headed, Holly had six minutes to pilot the pod out of the jamming corona. Also, it would be nice to have some oxygen to breathe. Luckily, the probe was on a steep descent, so the pod should go on a steep ascent. If they managed to break the surface before the six minutes ran out, then brilliant. They’d broadcast until Haven picked up the signal. If not, since the pod wasn’t equipped with automatic pilot or broadcast facilities, the probe would be on top of the Atlantis security towers before they even noticed it, and another little negative was that they would be dead.

It’s funny, thought Holly. I don’t think my heart rate is up that much. These life-or-death situations have become almost normal for me ever since meeting Artemis Fowl.

She glanced sideways at the romantic who was wearing Artemis’s face, and he caught the look.

"Penny for your thoughts, princess. Though they are worth a king’s ransom."

"I was wishing that you would go away," said Holly bluntly. "And return Artemis to us. We need him."

Orion hmmed. "That thought is not as valuable as I had imagined. Why do you want Artemis back? He is nasty and mean to everyone."

"Because Artemis could get us out of this alive and save the people of Haven and possibly find out who murdered all those LEP officers."

"I grant you that," said Orion, miffed. "But his sonnets are heartless, and that opera house he designed was totally self-indulgent."

"Yep, that’s what we need now," Foaly chimed in. "Opera-house designing skills."

"Oh yes, traitorous steed," said Orion testily. "Probe-designing skills would be much more useful."

Holly sounded a quick burst on the klaxon for attention. "Excuse me, gentlemen. All this arguing is consuming oxygen, so could we all please be quiet?"

"Is that a command, beloved?"

"Yes," whispered Holly ominously. "It is."

"Very well. Then quiet it shall be. I would rather cut out my own tongue than utter one more word. I would sooner behead myself with a butter knife than speak a single—"

Holly gave in to a baser instinct and jabbed Orion in the solar plexus.

That was wrong, she thought as the boy drooped in his harness, gasping for breath. I am going to feel guilty about that later.

If there was a later. There was plenty of power in the fuel block, just no air in the tanks and no recycling facility to scrub the carbon dioxide from the exhaled air. The pod was supposed to be a short-term option only. It hadn’t been designed for actual missions; the hull could crack under the pressure of steep ascent long before the fuel ran out.

So many ways to die, thought Holly. Eventually, one of them is going to get us.

The digital depth gauge was spinning backward from 10,000 meters. They were in an Atlantic trench, never before seen by human eyes. Shoals of strange luminous fish swarmed around them, easily keeping pace, butting the hull with the fleshy glowing bulbs in their transparent bellies.

Then the light changed and the fish were gone, darting away so quickly it was as though they had simply dematerialized. In their place were seals and whales and fish like silver arrowheads. A chunk of blue ice rolled past, and Holly saw her mother’s face in its planes and shadows.

Oxygen deprivation, she told herself. That’s all it is.

"How long?" she asked Foaly.

The centaur checked the oxygen levels. "Based on three conscious beings—nervous conscious beings I might add—rapidly consuming the air, we’re going to be short a minute or two."

"You said we could make it!"

"The hole in the tank is expanding."

Holly beat her fist on the dash. "D’Arvit, Foaly. Why does it always have to be so hard?"

Foaly spoke calmly. "Holly, my friend. You know what you have to do."

"No, Foaly. I don’t."

"Yes, you do."

Holly did know. There were three conscious people breathing hard. Foaly alone took in more oxygen than a bull troll. It only took one person to steer the ship and send the message.

It was a tough choice, but there was no time to agonize over it. She felt for a squat metal cylinder in one of the rings on her belt and pulled it out.

"What’s that, sweetness?" asked Orion, who had just recovered from the belly jab.

Holly answered the question with one of her own. "Would you do anything for me, Orion?"

The boy’s face seemed to light up. "Of course. Absolutely anything."

"Close your eyes and count to ten."

Orion was disappointed. "What? No tasks? Not even a dragon to slay?"

"Close your eyes if you love me."

Orion did so immediately, and Holly prodded him in the neck with a battery-powered Shokker. The electrocuted boy slumped in the harness, two electrode burns smoking gently on his neck.

"Nicely done," said Foaly nervously. "Not in the neck for me, if you don’t mind."

Holly checked the Shokker. "Don’t worry. I only had enough charge for one."

Foaly could not suppress a sigh of relief, and when he glanced guiltily across at Orion, knowing that really he should be the unconscious one, Holly hit him in the flank with the second charge.

Foaly did not even have time to think You sneaky elf before slumping in the corner.

"Sorry, guys," said Holly, then made a silent vow not to speak again until it was time to send the message.

The pod powered toward the surface, its prow slicing through the water. Holly steered through a vast underwater canyon that had developed its own ecology completely safe from human exploitation. She saw huge undulating eels that could crush a bus, strange crabs with glowing shells, and some kind of two-legged creature that disappeared into a crevice before she could get a proper look at it.

She took the most direct line she could through the canyon, finding a rock chimney that allowed her to exit into open sea.

There was still nothing on the communications array. Solidly blocked. She needed to get farther away.

I could really do with some warlock magic right now, Holly thought. If N º1 were here, he could wiggle his runes and turn carbon dioxide into oxygen.

Water, fish, and bubbles flashed past the window, and could that be a shaft of light from the surface? Had the craft reached the photic zone?

Holly tried the radio again. She heard static this time, but maybe with some chatter inside it.

Good, she thought, but her head was fuzzy. Did I imagine that?

No, you heard it all right, said the unconscious Foaly. Did I ever tell you about my kids?

Oxygen deprivation. That’s all it was.

Why did you shoot me, sweetness? wondered passed-out Orion. Did I displease you?

It’s too late. Too late.

Holly was shaking now. She filled her lungs but was not satisfied with the foul air. The pod walls suddenly became concave, bending in to crush her.

"It’s not happening," she called, breaking her vow of silence.

She checked the coms again. Some signal now. There were definitely words among the static.

Enough to transmit?

One way to find out. Holly tapped through her options on the dashboard readout and selected transmit only to be informed that the external antenna was not available. The computer advised her to check the connection. Holly pressed her face to the starboard and saw that the connection was pretty well defunct, as the entire thing had been knocked out of its housing by one impact or another.

Why doesn’t this tug bucket, Stone Age piece of junk have an internal antenna? Even glooping phones have internal antennae.

Phones! Of course.

Holly punched the harness-release button on her chest and dropped to her knees. She slid along the deck, moving toward Foaly.

It smells bad down here. Stale air.

For a second, one of the handrails grew a snake’s head and hissed at her.

Your time is running out, it said. Your odds are short, Short.

Don’t listen to the snake, said Foaly, without moving his lips. He’s just bitter because his soul is stuck in a handrail because of some stuff that happened in a previous life.

I still love you, said sleeping Orion, breathing slow and steady, using hardly any oxygen.

I am really going insane this time, thought Holly.

Holly pulled herself along Foaly’s frame, reaching into his shirt pocket for his phone. The centaur never went anywhere without his precious phone, and was proud of its modified clunkiness.

I love that phone, said Foaly proudly. Over five hundred mi-p’s. All my own design. I did a nice one called Offspring. Say you find the love of your life: all you need to do is take a photo of you and your beloved, and Offspring will show you what your potential kids will look like.

Fascinating. I hope we get to talk about it for real sometime.

The phone was switched on, so there was no need for a password, although knowing Foaly as she did, Holly supposed that his password would be some version of his own name. His screen was a crazy jumble of mi-p’s that probably made sense if you were a centaur.

The problem with all these applications is that sometimes a person just wants to make a quick call. Where’s the phone icon?

Then the icons started waving at her. "Pick me," they chorused. "Over here." That’s not a hallucination, said passed-out Foaly proudly.

Those little guys are animated.

"Phone," Holly shouted into the communicator’s microphone, hoping for voice control. To her relief, a blurry old-fashioned cone phone icon expanded to fill the screen.

It’s not actually blurry. My eyesight’s fading.

"Call Police Plaza," she ordered the icon.

The phone ticked for a moment, then asked. "Do you wish to call Phil’s Pizza?"

"No. Call Police Plaza."

The water rushing by was definitely more azure now, shot through with bubbles and bending streaks of light.

"Do you wish to call Police Plaza?"

"Yes," gasped Holly. "Yes, I do."

There was more jostling as the pod passed through the surface disturbance and was flipped by the waves.

"Connecting you with Police Plaza."

The phone hummed gently as it tried to connect, then said in a comically sad voice: "Boo-hoo. You don’t have a strong enough signal. Would you like to record a message for me to send just as soon as the signal is strong enough?"

"Yes," croaked Holly.

"Did you say yikes? Because yikes is not an appropriate response in this situation."

Holly composed herself. "Yes. I would like to compose a message."

"Great," said the phone brightly. "Start recording after the bell, and remember good manners don’t cost anything, so always introduce yourself and say good-bye."

Say good-bye, thought Holly. Funny.

Holly recorded a concise message containing as few coughs and splutters as possible, identifying herself, as the phone had suggested, and also identifying the threat heading toward Atlantis. Almost as soon as she had finished, Holly collapsed on her back, flopping weakly like a stranded fish. There were spots before her eyes, which grew larger and became pale circles, crowding together, obscuring her vision. She did not see the colors outside the porthole change from blue to green to the dull, pearlescent white of a northern sky.

She did not hear the pressure vents pop, or feel cool air flooding the cabin, and Captain Holly Short did not know that fifteen minutes after the pod surfaced, her message to Police Plaza would finally be transmitted and be acted upon almost immediately.

It would have been acted upon immediately had not the sprite on the switchboard, a certain Chix Verbil, initially believed that the message was a prank call from his poker buddy, Crooz, made to make fun of his nasally voice.

Chix only decided to pass the message on to Commander Trouble Kelp when it occurred to him that there could be a career downside to ignoring the warning that could have saved Atlantis.

"I like your attitude," said Tombstone.

The Deeps, Atlantis; Now

Turnball Root was busy pretending to be busy working on his model of the Nostremius aquanaut, so that he would appear all the more innocent when they came to get him, which he was certain they would very shortly.

Pretending to be busy takes more energy than simply being busy, Turnball realized, and this cheered him tremendously, as it was a witty observation and just the kind of thing that his eventual biographers would pick up on. But witty observations must now take a backseat to the plan. After all, witty observations would be far more enjoyable when he had someone else besides Vishby to listen to them. Leonor adored his little comments and often wrote them in her diary. Turnball’s eyes lost their focus, and his hands froze in space as he remembered their first summer together on that beautiful island in the Pacific. She, boyish in her vest and jodhpurs, he handsome and rakish in his LEP dress jacket.

"This can never work, Captain. How can it possibly work? I am human, after all, and you are most certainly not."

And quick as a flash, he took her hands in his and said: "Love can break down any barriers. Love and magic."

That was when he made her love him.

Leonor jumped a little but didn’t remove her hands.

"I felt a spark, Turnball," she said.

He joked, "I felt it too," then explained, "Static electricity, that always happens to me."

Leonor believed it and fell for her captain.

She would have loved me soon enough anyway, thought Turnball crossly. I simply hurried the process.

But he knew in his heart that he had bolstered Leonor’s emotions with magic, and now that she was so far beyond her natural end, his hold on her was slipping.

Without magic, will she love me as I love her? he wondered a thousand times a day, and knew that he was terrified to find out.

To keep his vital signs steady, Turnball turned his thoughts once more to his thrall, Mr. Vishby.

Vishby was undeniably a repulsive dolt, and yet Turnball Root had a soft spot for the lad, and would perhaps even decide to let him live when this was all over, or at least kill him quickly. Of all the great schemes and impossible heists that Turnball had been involved in as a crooked cop, fugitive, or inmate, the simple-sounding act of turning Vishby had been the most ambitious. It had required perfect timing, audacity, and months of grooming. Turnball often thought of this plan, which he had set into motion almost four years previously. . . .

It wasn’t as if Vishby were a human with an already treacherous and self-serving nature. Vishby was a fairy, and most fairies, with the exception of goblins, were just not inclined toward the criminal life. Common lawbreakers, like that Diggums character, were common enough, but intelligent, foresighted criminals were rare.

Vishby’s downfall was that he was a moaner, and as the months had rolled by, he’d gradually let down his guard with Turnball Root and told him all about his demotion following Mulch Diggums’s escape. He’d also expressed a bitterness toward the LEP for the reprimand and wished he could do something to get back at them.

Turnball saw his chance—his first real chance of escape since his arrest. He’d formulated a plan to recruit Vishby.

The first stage was to feign sympathy for the water elf, whereas in reality, had he been in charge, he would have flushed him out of an airlock for his performance in the Diggums episode.

I so enjoy our chats, he had said. How I wish we could talk more freely.

Vishby had clammed up immediately, remembering that every word was on tape.

On his next visit, Vishby had entered with a smug tilt to his fishy head, and Turnball knew his plan would succeed.

I switched off your mike, the prison warder had said. Now we can talk about whatever we like.

And then Turnball knew that he had him. All it would take was a little Turnball Root magic to make Vishby his slave.

Except that Turnball Root didn’t have magic. That was the one irrevocable price that criminals paid: loss of magic, forever. This was one forfeit that there was no coming back from, and exiled criminals had been trying for centuries. They bought potions, tried spells, chanted in the moonlight, slept upside down, bathed in centaur dung. Nothing worked. Once you had broken the fairy rules, your magic was gone. It was partly a psychological thing, but mostly it was the result of age-old warlock hexes that successive administrations did not feel like unlocking.

This denial of his basic fairy rights had always irked Turnball, and during his years as a fugitive he had spent a fortune on dozens of witch doctors and quacks who all claimed they could have him running hot, brimful of magic, if only he would take this potion or recite that spell backward in the dead of night while holding a grumpy frog. Nothing worked. Nothing until, a century ago, Turnball found an exiled sprite living in Ho Chi Minh City who had somehow managed to maintain a tiny spark of power, just enough to remove the occasional wart. For a huge price, which Turnball would have paid a million times over, she revealed her secret:

Mandrake root and rice wine. It won’t bring the sweet magic back, Captain, but each time you partake of these two, they’ll give you a spark. One hot spark at a time and that is all. Use this little trick wisely, my Captain, or the spark won’t be there when you most need it.

This pearl from an alcoholic sprite.

It was a trick he’d used in the past, but not since his arrest. Until now. And so for his birthday that year, Turnball had requested a dinner of puffer fish with fo-fo berries and mandrake shavings, followed by a carafe of rice wine and sim-coffee. This request was accompanied by the revelation of the whereabouts of a notorious group of arms smugglers, which would be quite a feather in the warden’s cap. Tarpon Vinyáya agreed to the request. When Vishby arrived with the meal, Turnball invited him to stay and talk. And while they chatted, Turnball picked at his meal, eating only the mandrake shavings and drinking only the wine, all the time subtly reinforcing Vishby’s opinion of the LEP.

Yes, my dear Vishby, they are unfeeling louts. I mean, what were you to do? That thug Diggums left you no option but to flee.

And when the moment was right, when Turnball felt a single spark of magic coalesce in his gut, he rested his hand lightly on Vishby’s shoulder, allowing his little finger to touch the water elf’s bare neck.

Usually neck touching is no big deal. Wars have rarely been fought over a neck touch, but this touch was malicious. For on the pad of his finger, Turnball had painted, in his own blood, a black-magic thrall rune. Turnball was a great believer in runes. Ideally, for maximum effectiveness, the person having the spell cast on them would be spread-eagled on a granite plinth, doused in oil fermented from the tears of unicorns, and tattooed from head to foot with symbols, and then given at least three minutes of magic full in the face. But you make do with what you have and hope for the best.

So Turnball touched Vishby on the neck and transferred his single spark of magic through the contact.

Vishby slapped his neck as if stung. "Ow! Hey, what was that? I felt a spark, Turnball."

Turnball quickly withdrew his hand. "Static electricity. That always happens around me. My mother was afraid to kiss me. Here, Vishby, have some of this wine to make up for the shock."

Vishby eyed the contents of the carafe greedily. Alcoholic beverages were not usually allowed in the prison, as with prolonged use they cause the magical receptors to atrophy. But some fairies, much like humans, cannot resist what is bad for them.

"I’m your fairy," he said, eagerly accepting a cup.

Yes, Turnball thought. Yes, you are now.

Turnball knew it would work. It had before, on stronger minds than Vishby’s.

And so Vishby found that he could never say no to Turnball Root. It started out with simple harmless requests: an extra blanket, some reading material not in the prison system. But soon Vishby found himself inextricably bound up in Turnball’s escape plans, and what was more, he didn’t seem to mind being involved. It seemed the sensible thing to do.

Over the following four years, Vishby had gone from guard to accomplice. He had made contact with several inmates who were still loyal to Turnball and prepared them for the great escape. He made several raids on what was then Koboi Laboratories and used his security code to access their sensitive recycling plant, where he found, among other things, the scrambler wafer and the infinitely more valuable control orb for the Mars probe. Somewhere in the back of his mind, Vishby knew that eventually someone would find out about these thefts, but he couldn’t seem to make himself care.

Most of what he had found at Koboi Labs was of absolutely no use or was too far gone to be fixed, but the control orb needed only a slight descaling and the insertion of a new omni-sensor. These were such simple tasks that Vishby, at Turnball’s request, did them at home, with a little webcam supervision, naturally.

Once Turnball had a working original control orb in his possession, it was a relatively simple matter to sync with the Mars probe before take-off and begin the arduous task of reprogramming its mission parameters. This was not a task he could complete before the spacecraft actually left the Earth, but off the top of his head he could think of a dozen ways a rogue spaceship might prove useful. But not on Mars.

Mars? Oh no, no, Leonor. That’s too far away, and of no use to me. Let’s wait until it takes off on its mission and then turn this big fellow around.

His original plan for the probe had been simplicity itself: use it as a very big and very loud distraction on its return from Mars. But, as Leonor’s communications became terser and somehow colder, Turnball realized that he would have to accelerate his schedule and refine his plot. It was vital that he escape, but it was even more important that he strengthen his hold over Leonor before her humanity completely reasserted itself. Her aging was now so rapid that it would take some very special magic to reverse it. And there was only one place to get such magic. If Julius had been alive, Turnball would have worried about his little brother stumbling into his deception, but even with Julius gone, there was still the entire LEP to worry about. He needed to damage the force, cut off the head of the snake, and maybe its tail too.

And so Turnball monitored Warden Vinyáya’s communications, using the password Vishby had stolen for him. He was especially interested in the calls to the warden’s sister, Commander Raine Vinyáya of the LEP.

The snake’s head.

Commander Vinyáya was a hard fairy to kill, especially if your weapon was a blunt instrument in space, and the commander seemed reluctant to go topside, where she was vulnerable.

And then, only last month, she had made a video call to her brother informing him, in giddy tones, that she would never allow anyone else to hear of her trip to Iceland to meet the Mud Whelp Artemis Fowl. Apparently the boy was planning to save the world.

The infamous Artemis Fowl, Commander Vinyáya, and Holly Short too, together in one place. Perfect.

Turnball had activated his control orb and fed an entirely new set of mission parameters to the Mars probe, parameters that the probe never even questioned because they came from its own orb. To paraphrase: Come back to Earth and crush the commander and as many of her elite team as possible. Crush them, then burn them, then electrocute the cinders.

What fun.

Then there was Artemis Fowl. He had heard of the boy, and by all accounts, this particular human was a little brighter than most. Better to study up a little just in case the human had a little treachery planned himself. Turnball used the warden’s code to access the LEP surveillance feed from more than two hundred camera bugs planted in Fowl Manor and found to his utter delight that Artemis Fowl seemed to be developing Atlantis Complex.

Atlantis is the magic word for this mission, he thought.

Turnball was equally concerned about the Mud Boy’s gigantic bodyguard, who seemed just the kind of person to hunt down and kill his master’s murderer.

The famous Butler. The man who had taken down a troll.

Luckily, Artemis himself took Butler out of play when his paranoia flared up, and he invented a reason to send the bodyguard to Mexico.

Even though it complicated his plans a little, Turnball decided to have a little fun with the Butlers, just to cut off any vengeful loose ends.

I know you would not approve of all these deaths, Leonor, Turnball thought as he sat at his computer, sending instructions through to Vishby’s terminal. But they are necessary if we are to be together forever. Those people are unimportant compared to our eternal love. And you will never know the price of our happiness. All you will know is that we are reunited.

But in truth, Turnball knew that he enjoyed all the machinations tremendously and was almost sorry to send the kill orders. Almost but not quite. Even better than scheming would be all the time to be spent with Leonor, and it had been too long since he had seen his wife’s beautiful face.

So he’d sent the kill orders to the probe and loaded up on mandrake and rice wine.

Luckily, it only took the barest spark of magic to mesmerize humans.

Because they are weak-willed and stupid. But funny, like monkeys.

When Vishby arrived on that final day in prison, Turnball was sitting on his hands, trying hard to contain his excitement.

"Ah, Mr. Vishby," he said when the door dissolved. "You’re early. Is there some irregularity I should be concerned about?"

Vishby’s impassive fish face was a little more emotional than usual. "The warden’s sister is dead. Commander Vinyáya and a whole shuttle of LEP blown apart. Did we do that?"

Turnball licked the blood rune on his finger. "Whether we did or not is unimportant. You shouldn’t be concerned."

Vishby absently fingered his neck, where a faint outline of the rune still glowed. "I’m not concerned. Why should I be? It was nothing to do with us."

"Good. Fabulous. I imagine we have bigger fish to fry."

Vishby flinched at the fish reference.

"Oh. Oops, sorry, Mr. Vishby. I should be more sensitive. Come now, tell me, what news?" Vishby flapped his gills for a moment, getting the sentences together in his head. Captain Root did not like stammering.

"There’s a space probe heading directly for Atlantis, so we have to evacuate the city. It’s likely that the craft won’t actually penetrate the dome, but the Council can’t take the chance. I’ve been called up to pilot a shuttle, and you’re one of my . . . eh . . . p-passengers."

Turnball sighed, disappointed. "Oh . . . p-passengers? Really?" Vishby rolled his eyes. "Sorry, Captain. Passengers, of course, one of my passengers."

"It’s so unprofessional, the stammering."

"I know," said Vishby. "I’m working on it. I bought one of those . . . eh . . . au-audio books. I’m nervous now."

Turnball decided to go easy on Vishby; there would be plenty of time for discipline later when he was killing the water elf. The ultimate punishment.

"It’s only natural," he said magnanimously. "First day back in the pilot’s chair. Then there’s this mysterious probe, plus you have to transport all of us dangerous prisoners."

Vishby seemed even more nervous. "Exactly. Well, the thing is . . . I don’t want to do this, Turnball, but . . ."

"But you have to cuff me," finished Turnball. "Of course. I understand completely." He thrust out his hands with wrists upturned. "It’s not as if you have to fasten the cuffs, is it?"

Vishby blinked and touched his neck. "No. Why would I fasten them? That would be barbaric."

The water elf laid a set of standard ultralight plastic polymer cuffs across Turnball’s wrist.

"Comfy?" he asked.

Again, Turnball was feeling generous. "I’ll be fine. Don’t worry about me. You concentrate on the shuttle."

"Thanks, Captain. This is a big day for me."

As Vishby dissolved the door, Turnball was struck by how the guard’s subconscious dealt with betraying all that he believed in. Vishby simply pretended that everything was as it should be, until the moment when it was not. The water elf somehow managed to keep two lives running simultaneously side by side.

Amazing what a person will do to avoid guilt, thought Turnball, following Vishby through the doorway and taking his first breath of free recycled air in years.

Atlantis was a small city by human standards. With barely ten thousand residents, it wouldn’t even qualify as a city to the Mud Men, but to the fairies it was their second center of government and culture, the first being the capital, Haven City. There was a growing lobby to demolish Atlantis altogether, as the upkeep cost a fortune in taxpayers’ money and it was only a matter of time before the humans sank one of their submarine drones in the right spot and got a shot of the dome. But the budget for such a massive relocation and demolition project was so huge that continued maintenance always seemed the more attractive option to the politicians. It was more expensive in the long term, but the politicians reasoned that by the time the long term came around, somebody else would be in office.

Vishby led Turnball Root along a corridor tube with Perspex walling through which he could see dozens of crafts lining up at the various dome pressure-lock tollgates, waiting to swipe their credit chips for exit. There didn’t seem to be any panic. And why would there be? The Atlanteans had been preparing for a dome breach ever since the last one, more than eight thousand years ago, when an asteroid had superheated a two-mile-long tube of ocean before spending its last gasp of energy knocking a crunchball-sized chunk out of the dome, which in those days had not been shatterproof. In less than an hour the entire city had been submerged with more than five thousand casualties. It had taken a hundred years or so to build the new Atlantis on top of the foundations supplied by the ruins of the old Atlantis, and this time an evacuation strategy had featured large in the city blueprints. All of which meant that in case of emergency, every male, female, and child fairy could be out of the city in less than an hour. Drills were held every week, and in nursery school the first rhyme every student learned was:

The blue dome

Protects our home;

If it should crack,

Prepare for evac.

Turnball Root recalled this ditty as he followed Vishby along the corridor.

Crack, evac? What kind of rhyme was that? Evac wasn’t even a real word, just a military contraction. Exactly the kind of word Julius might have used.

I am so glad Leonor never had to endure meeting my boorish brother. If she had, no amount of magical persuasion could have enticed her to marry me.

A part of Turnball knew that he kept Leonor away from the People in general because a ten-minute conversation with any fairy under the world would have shown Leonor that her husband was not quite the noble revolutionary that he pretended to be. Luckily, this was a part of himself that Turnball had become quite adept at ignoring.

Other prisoners were shambling from their cells across narrow bridges onto the main walkway. Each was shackled and dressed in a lime green Deeps prison jumpsuit. Most were laying on the bravado, rolling swaggers and obvious sneers, but Turnball knew from experience that it was the ones with the placid gazes you had to worry about. Those ones were beyond caring.

"Come on now, convicts," called a particularly Cro-Magnon-looking jumbo pixie, a breed that sometimes popped up in Atlantis due to the pressurized environment. "Keep moving there. Don’t make me buzz you."

At least I am wearing my full dress uniform, thought Turnball, ignoring the guard, but he did not feel much consoled. Uniform or no, he was being paraded down this walkway like a common prisoner. He soothed himself with the decision that he would definitely kill Vishby as soon as possible and maybe send an e-mail to Leeta, congratulating Vishby’s sweetheart on her new single status. She would probably be delighted.

Vishby raised a fist, bringing the procession to a halt at an intersection. The prisoners were forced to wait like cattle while a large metal cube, secured with titanium bands, was floated past them on a hover trolley.

"Opal Koboi," explained Vishby. "She’s so dangerous they’re not even letting her out of her cell."

Turnball bristled. Opal Koboi. People down here spent their days gossiping about Opal Koboi. The current rumor was that there was another Opal Koboi around somewhere who had come out of the past to rescue herself in the present. People might get more done if they stopped obsessing over Opal-blooming-Koboi. If anyone should be concerned about Koboi, it was Turnball. After all, she had murdered his little brother. Then again, better not. Dwelling on the past could cause his ulcer to return.

It took the cube an age to float by, and Turnball counted three doors on the side.

Three doors. My cell has a single door. Why does Koboi need a cell so big that it has three doors?

It didn’t matter. He would be out of here soon enough and then he could treat himself like royalty.

Leonor and I shall return to the island where we first met so dramatically.

As soon as the intersection was clear, Vishby led them on toward their shuttle bay. Through the clear plastic, Turnball noticed crowds of civilians walking briskly but without apparent panic toward their own rescue pods. On the upper levels, groups of Atlantis’s more affluent citizens strolled to private evacuation shuttles that probably cost more than Turnball could steal in a week.

Ruffles are back in, Turnball noted with some pleasure. I knew it.

The corridor opened out into a loading bay, where groups of prisoners were waiting impatiently by air locks that opened directly on to the sea.

"This is all so unnecessary," said Vishby. "The water cannons are going to blast this probe thing to smithereens.

We’ll all be back here in a few minutes." Not all of us, thought Turnball, not bothering to conceal a smile. Some of us are never coming back.

And he knew in that instant that it was true. Even if his plan failed, he was never coming back here. One way or another, Turnball Root would be free.

Vishby beeped the shuttle door with his keys, and the manacled prisoners filed inside. Once they were seated, Vishby activated carnival-ride-style safety bars, which also acted as very effective restraints. The convicts were pinned to their seats, still cuffed. Totally helpless.

"You got ’em, Fishby?" asked the Cro-Magnon pixie.

"Yes, I got ’em. And the name’s Vishby!"

Turnball smirked. Office bullying; another reason he had been able to turn Vishby so easily.

"That’s what I said, Frisbee. Now, why don’t you pilot this bucket out of here and let me keep watch on these scary convicts?"

Vishby bristled. "Just you wait a minute . . ."

Turnball Root did not have time for a showdown. "That’s an excellent idea, Mr. Vishby. You put that pilot’s licence to good use and let your colleague here watch over us scary convicts."

Vishby touched his neck. "Sure. Why not? I should get us out of here like I’m supposed to."

"Exactly. You know it makes sense."

"Go on, Fishboy," scoffed the big guard, whose name tag had been altered to read k-max. "Do what the convict tells you."

Vishby sat at the controls and ran a brisk prelaunch, whistling softly through his gills to shut out K-Max’s jibes.

This K-Max fellow doesn’t realize how much trouble he’s in, thought Turnball, the idea pleasing him tremendously. He felt empowered.

"Excuse me, Mr. K-Max, is it?"

K-Max squinted in what he thought was a threatening fashion, but the actual effect was to make him seem shortsighted and perhaps constipated. "That’s right, prisoner. K to the Max. The king of maximum security."

"Oh, I see. A sobriquet. How romantic of you."

K-Max twirled his buzz baton. "There ain’t nothing romantic about me, Root. You ask my three ex-wives. I am here to cause discomfort and that is all."

"Oops," said Turnball playfully. "Sorry I spoke."

This little exchange gave Vishby a chance to get the shuttle out of the dock and one of the shuttle’s other occupants a moment to orientate himself and realize that his old leader was about to make his move. In fact, of the twelve rough-and-ready specimens locked down behind the shuttle’s security bars, ten had served under Turnball at one time or another, and most had done very nicely by it, until their capture. Once Vishby had been reactivated, he had easily ensured that these prisoners were allocated seats.

It will be nice for the captain to have friends around him in a time of crisis, he reasoned.

The most important friend was the sprite Unix B’lob, who sat directly across the vulcanized walkway from Turnball. Unix was a grounded sprite with cauterized nubs where his wings should be. Turnball had dragged Unix out of a troll pit, and the sprite had served as his right-hand fairy ever since. He was the best kind of lieutenant, as he never questioned orders. Unix did not justify or prioritize: he was equally prepared to die fetching Turnball a coffee as he was stealing a nuclear warhead.

Turnball winked at his subordinate to let him know that today was the day. Unix did not react, but then he rarely did, icy indifference being his attitude toward pretty much everything.

Cheer up, Unix, old man, Turnball longed to call. Death and mayhem will shortly follow.

But he had to content himself with the wink for the moment.

Vishby was nervous, and it showed. The shuttle sputtered forward in lurchy hops, scraping a fender along the docking jetty.

"Nice going, Vishby," snarled K-Max. "Are you trying to crush us before the probe does it?"

Vishby flushed, and gripped the rudder stick so tightly his knuckles glowed green.

"It’s okay. I’ve got it now. No problems."

The shuttle edged from the shelter of the massive curved fins that funneled the worst of the underwater currents away from the dome, and Turnball enjoyed the receding view of new Atlantis. The cityscape was a murky jumble of traditional spires and minarets alongside more modern glass-and-steel pyramids. Hundreds of slatted filter pods sat at the corners of the giant polymer pentagons that slotted together to form the protective dome over Atlantis.

If the probe hit a filter pod, the dome could go, thought Turnball; and then, Oh, look, they used schoolchildren’s designs to decorate the fins. How fun.

Out they went, past the water cannons, which were erect in their cradles, just waiting for coordinates.

Farewell, my probe, thought Turnball. You have served me well and I shall miss you.

A flotilla fled the threatened city: pleasure craft and city shuttles, troop carriers and prisoner transporters, all flitting toward the ten-mile marker where the brainiacs assured them the shock wave would dissipate to the merest ripple. And though the flight seemed chaotic, it was not. Each and every craft had a marker to dock with at the ten-mile circle.

Vishby was growing in confidence and quickly navigated the gloomy depths toward their marker, only to find that a giant squid had latched on to the pulsing buoy, pecking at its glowing beacon.

The water elf turned the shuttle’s exhaust on the creature, and it scooted off in a flurry of rippling tentacles. Vishby let the auto-dock take over, lowering the shuttle onto its magnetic docking buoy.

K-Max laughed scornfully. "You shouldn’t shoot at your cousins, Fishboy. You won’t get invited to family functions."

Vishby pounded the dash. "I have had enough of you!"

"Me too," said Turnball, and reached out, casually pinching K-Max’s buzz baton from his belt. He could have shocked the jumbo sprite immediately, but he wanted him to realize what was going on. It took a while.

"Hey," said K-Max. "What are you—? You just took my . . ." And then the lightbulb moment. "You aren’t cuffed."

"What a bright boy," said Turnball, and thrust the buzz baton into K-Max’s gut, sending ten thousand volts crackling through the pixie’s body. The guard jittered on point like a possessed classical dancer, then collapsed in a boneless-looking heap.

"You shocked my fellow officer," said Vishby dully, "which should upset me, but I am okay with it, more than okay, actually, even though you can’t tell by my tone of voice."

Turnball shot Unix another wink that said, Watch your genius boss at work.

"You don’t need to feel anything, Mr. Vishby. All you need to do is release bars three and six."

"Just three and six? Don’t you want to release all your friends? You have been lonely for so long, Turnball."

Bars three and six popped up, and Turnball rose, luxuriously stretching his legs, as though he had been seated for an age.

"Not just yet, Mr. Vishby. Some of my friends may have forgotten me."

Unix was also freed, and went immediately to work, stripping K-Max of his boots and belt. He shrugged off the top half of his own jumpsuit and tied it off at his waist, so the scar tissue of his wing nubs could get a little air.

Turnball felt a twinge of unease. Unix was a disturbing fellow, loyal unto death, but strange beyond strange. He could have had those wing nubs carved down by a plastidoc, but he preferred to wear them like trophies.

If he ever shows the smallest sign of disloyalty, I will have to put him down like a dog. No hesitation.

"Everything all right, Unix?"

The pale sprite nodded curtly, then continued to frisk K-Max’s person.

"Very well," said Turnball, taking center stage for his big speech. "Gentlemen, we are on the brink of what the press often refers to as an audacious prison break. Some of us will survive and, unfortunately, some won’t. The good news is that the choice is yours."

"I choose to survive," said Ching Mayle, a gruff goblin with bite marks on his skull, and muscles up to his ears.

"Not so fast, Mayle. A leap of faith is involved."

"You can count on me, Captain."

This from Bobb Ragby, a dwarf fitted with an extra restraint in the form of a mouth ring. He had fought at Turnball’s behest in many a skirmish, including the fateful one on the Tern Islands, where Julius Root and Holly Short had finally arrested Turnball.

Turnball flicked Bobb’s mouth ring, making it ping.

"Can I, Mr. Ragby, or has prison made you soft? Do you still have the gumption?"

"Just take this ring off and find out. I will swallow that guard whole."

"Which guard?" asked Vishby, nervous in spite of the thrall rune that pulsed at his throat.

"Not you, Vishby," said Turnball soothingly. "Mr. Ragby didn’t mean you, did you, Mr. Ragby?"

"I did, actually."

Turnball’s fingers flew to his mouth. "How troubling. I am conflicted, Mr. Vishby. You have done me no little service, but Bobb Ragby there wants to eat you, and that would be entertaining, plus he gets grumpy if we don’t feed him."

Vishby wanted to be terrified, to take some radical action, but the rune on his neck forbade any emotion stronger than mild anxiety. "Please, Turnball, Captain. I thought we were friends."

Turnball Root considered this. "You are a traitor to your people, Vishby. How can I take a traitor for a friend?"

Even a magic-doped Vishby could see the irony in this. After all, had not Turnball Root betrayed his kind on numerous occasions, even sacrificing members of the criminal fraternity for creature comforts in his cell?

"But your model parts," he objected weakly. "And the computer. You gave the names of—"

Turnball did not like how this conversation was going and so took two quick steps and buzzed Vishby in the gills. The water elf fell sideways on the pilot seat and hung in his harness, arms dangling, gills rippling.

"Jabber jabber jabber," said Turnball brightly. "All these guards are the same. Always sticking it to the cons, eh, my boyos?"

Unix spun Vishby’s chair around and began a thorough search, taking anything of potential use, even a small pack of indigestion tablets, because you never knew.

"Here’s the choice, gentlemen," said Turnball to his captive audience. "Step outside with me now, or stay and wait for an assault charge to be added to your sentence."

"Just step outside?" said Bobb Ragby, half chuckling.

Turnball smiled easily, charming as a devil. "That’s it, lads. We step outside into the water."

"I read something about there being pressure underwater."

"I heard that too," said Ching Mayle, licking an eyeball. "Won’t we be crushed?"

Turnball shrugged, milking his moment. "Trust me, lads. It’s all about trust. If you don’t trust me, stay here and rot. I need men with me I can rely on, especially with what I’ve got planned. Think of this as a test."

There were several groans. Captain Root had always had a thing for tests. It wasn’t enough to be a murderous marauder—a person had to pass all these tests. Once he had made the entire group eat raw stink worms just to prove that they were prepared to obey any order, however ludicrous. The hideaway’s plumbing had taken quite a battering that weekend.

Ching Mayle scratched the bite marks on his crown. "Those are our choices? Stay here or step outside?"

"Succinctly put, Mr. Mayle. Sometimes a limited vocabulary can be an advantage."

"Can we think about it?"

"Of course, take all the time you need," said Turnball magnanimously. "So long as your cogitations do not take more than two minutes."

Ching frowned. "My cogitations can take hours, especially if I have red meat."

Most fairies found animal flesh disgusting, but every enclave had its omnivorous faction.

"Two minutes? Seriously, Captain?"

"No."

Bobb Ragby would have wiped his brow if he could have reached it. "Thank goodness."

"One hundred seconds now. Come on, gents. Ticktock."

Unix rose from his search and stood wordlessly at Turnball’s side.

"That’s one. Who else is willing to place their lives in my hands?"

Ching nodded. "I reckon, yes. You did good by me,

Captain. I never even smelled fresh air till I cast my lot with you."

"Count me in," said Bobb Ragby, rattling his bar. "I’m scared, Captain. I won’t deny it, but I would rather die a pirate than go back to the Deeps."

Turnball raised an eyebrow. "And?"

Ragby’s voice was guttural with fear. "And what, Captain? I said I’d step outside."

"It’s your motivation, Mr. Ragby. I need more than a reluctance to go back to prison."

Ragby banged his head on the restraining bar. "More? I want to go with you, Captain. Honest I do. I swear it. I never met a leader like you."

"Really? I don’t know. You seem reluctant."

Ragby was not the sharpest spine on the hedgehog, but his gut told him that going with the captain was a lot safer than staying here. Turnball Root was famous for dealing with evidence and witnesses in a severe fashion. There was a legend going around the fairy fugitive bars that the captain had once burned down an entire shopping complex just to get rid of a thumbprint that he may have left behind in a booth at Falafel Fabulosity.

"I ain’t reluctant, Captain. Take me, please. I’m your faithful Ragby. Who was it that shot that fairy on Tern Mór? It were me. Good old Bobb."

Turnball wiped an imaginary tear from one eye. "Your pathetic pleadings move me, dear Bobby. Very well, Unix, release Misters Ragby and Ching."

The mutilated sprite did so, then popped Vishby’s harness and hoisted him upright.

"The turncoat?" said Unix.

Turnball started at the sound of Unix’s reptilian voice. He realized that in all their time together he probably hadn’t heard the sprite speak more than a hundred words.

"No. Leave him. Rice wine turns my stomach."

Other lieutenants might have requested an explanation on this point, but not Unix, who never wanted to know stuff he didn’t need to know and even that information was ejected from his brain as soon as it outlived its usefulness. The sprite simply nodded, then tossed Vishby aside like a sack of refuse.

Ragby and Ching stood quickly, as though repulsed by their seats.

"I feel funny," said the goblin, worming his little finger into one of the tooth marks on his bald skull. "Good ’cos I’m free, but a little bad too ’cos I might be about to die."

"You never did have much of a filter between your brain and mouth, Mr. Mayle," moaned Turnball. "Never mind, I’m the one paid to think." He faced the remaining prisoners. "Anybody else? Twenty seconds left."

Four hands went up. Two belonging to the same person, who was desperate not to be left behind.

"Too late," said Turnball, and gestured for his three chosen acolytes to stand by him. "Come closer; we need a group hug."

Hugging was not a habit anyone who knew Turnball Root would ever associate with him. The captain had once shot an elf for suggesting a high five, and so it was an effort for Bobb and Ching to keep the shock from their faces. Even Unix raised a jagged eyebrow.

"Oh, come now, gentlemen, am I as scary as all that?"

Yes, Bobb wanted to scream. You are scarier than a dwarf mom with a long-handled spoon. But instead he twisted his mouth into something approximating a smile and stepped into Turnball’s embrace. Unix drew close too, as did Ching.

"Aren’t we the strange bunch?" said Turnball cheerily. "Honestly, Unix. It’s like hugging a plank. And you, Mr. Ragby, you really smell very bad. Has anyone ever told you that?"

Ragby mumbled an admittance. "A few. Me dad, all those who were my mates."

"I’m not the first, then, thank goodness. I don’t mind confirming bad news, but I hate to break it."

Bobb Ragby wanted to cry: for some reason this inane chatter was terrifying.

A rumble rolled through the metal skin of the shuttle. The noise grew rapidly louder until it filled the small space. From nothing to everything in five seconds.

"Two minutes are up," shouted Turnball. "Time for the faithful to go outside."

The hull above the small group’s heads glowed red suddenly, as something melted it from the outside. Several alarms pulsed into life on the view screen’s heads-up display.

"Wow," shouted Turnball. "Total chaos all of a sudden. What could be going on?"

The section overhead was molten now, and it should have dripped down on the group, searing their flesh, but somehow it was siphoned off. Blob by white-hot blob, a large circle of the roof was sucked away until there was nothing holding the sea out except some kind of gel.

"Should we hold our breath?" asked Bobb Ragby, trying not to sob.

"Not much point, really," answered Turnball, who loved toying with people.

It’s nice to know more than everybody else, he thought. Then four amorphobots, who had merged into one large gelatinous blob, dropped a fat tentacle into the shuttle’s interior and sucked up Captain Root and his gang, clean as a dwarf sucking a snail from its shell. One second they were there, and the next, nothing remained but a slight smear on the deck and the echo of slobbering slurp.

"I am so glad I stayed where I am," said one of the remaining prisoners, who had never served with Turnball. He had, in fact, earned his six-year sentence for making clever copies of collectable cartoon-character spoons. "That blobby thing looked creepy."

None of the others spoke, as they had immediately realized what catastrophe would result from the blobby thing breaking its seal around the large hole in the hull.

As it happened, the expected catastrophe never got a chance to occur, because as soon as the amorphobots vacated the space, the hole was filled by the rogue probe, which had deviated suddenly from its course to plow through the shuttle, burying it deep into the bedrock of the ocean floor, mashing it completely. As for the people inside the shuttle, they were mostly liquefied. It would be months before any remains were found, and even longer before those remains could be identified. The impact crater was more than fifty feet deep and at least the same across. The whiplash shock rippled across the seabed, decimating the local ecology and stacking half a dozen rescue crafts on top of each other like building blocks.

The giant amorpho-blob bore Turnball and his cohorts swiftly from the impact site, perfectly mimicking the motion of a giant squid, even sprouting gel-tacles, which funneled the water in a tight cone behind it. Inside the main body of gel, two fairies were perfectly calm: Turnball could fairly be called serene, and Unix was as unperturbed by this latest marvel as he was by anything that he had seen in his long life. Bobb Ragby, on the other hand, could in truth be called terrified out of his tiny mind. While Turnball had summoned the amorphobots and had a fair idea of what to expect, as far as Ragby was concerned, they had been swallowed by a jelly monster and were being carried off to its lair to be consumed during the long cold winter. All Ching Mayle could think was one sentence over and over again: I’m sorry I stole the candy cane, which more than likely referred to an incident that was significant to him and to whomever he’d stolen the candy cane from.

Turnball reached into the jumble of electronics in the amorphobots’ belly and pulled out a small cordless mask, which he slipped over his face. It was possible to speak through the gel, but the mask made it infinitely easier.

"Well, my brave lads," he said. "We are now officially dead and free to take a shot at stealing the LEP’s most powerful natural resource. Something truly magical".

Ching snapped out of his candy-cane loop. He opened his mouth to speak, but realized quickly that while the gel somehow fed oxygen to his lungs, it didn’t support speech so well without a mask.

He gargled for a moment, then decided to pose his question later.

"I can guess what you were about to say, Mr. Mayle," said Turnball. "Why in heavens would we want to tangle with the LEP? Surely we should stay as far away from the police as possible." An amber light in the belly of the bot cast sinister shadows across the captain’s face. "I say no. I say we attack now and steal what we need from right under their noses, and while we’re about it spread a little destruction and mayhem to cover our tracks. You have seen what I can do from a prison cell—imagine what might be possible from the freedom of the wide world."

It was difficult to argue with this point, especially when the fairy making the point controled the gel-robot thing that was keeping everyone alive and no one else knew if they could speak or not. Turnball Root always knew how to pick his moment.

The amorphobot dropped quickly behind a jagged reef, escaping the worst of the shock wave. Slivers of rock and lumps of coral tumbled down through the murky water but were rejected by the gel. A squid ventured too close and was treated to a lick with an electrified gel-tacle. And as the walls of a towering undersea cliff flashed by in stripes of gray and green, Turnball sighed into his mask, the sound amplified and distorted.

I am coming, my love, he thought. Soon we will be together.

He decided against saying this aloud, as even Unix might think it a little melodramatic.

Turnball realized with a jolt that he was completely happy, and the cost of that happiness bothered him not a jot.





CHAPTER 8

RANDOMOSITY

Artemis Fowl’s Brain; Seconds Before Holly Short Shoots Him for the Second Time

Artemis observed and considered from the confines of his own brain, watching through the booby-trapped wall in his imagined office. The scenario was interesting, fascinating, in fact, and almost distracted him from his own problems. Someone had decided to hijack Foaly’s Mars probe and aim it directly at Atlantis. And it could not be coincidence that the probe had stopped off in Iceland to take care of Commander Vinyáya and her finest troops, not to mention the Fairy People’s wiliest, and only, human ally: Artemis Fowl.

There is an elaborate plan being played out in front of us, not just a series of coincidences.

It wasn’t that Artemis didn’t believe in coincidences— he just found a series of them hard to swallow.

There was one main question, as far as Artemis could see: Who benefits?

Who benefits if Vinyáya dies and Atlantis is threatened?

Vinyáya was well known for her zero-tolerance approach to crime—so many criminals would be delighted to have her out of the way—but why Atlantis?

Of course, the prison! It must be Opal Koboi: this was her bid for freedom. The probe triggers an evacuation that gets her outside the dome.

Opal Koboi, public enemy number one. The pixie who had incited the goblins to revolution and murdered Julius Root.

It must be Opal.

Artemis corrected himself: It is probably Opal. Don’t leap to conclusions.

It was infuriating to be stuck inside his own brain when there was so much going on in the world. His nano-wafer prototype, the Ice Cube, had been destroyed, and, more urgently, there was a probe headed for Atlantis that could potentially destroy the city, or at the very least allow a homicidal pixie to effect her escape.

"Let me out, won’t you?" Artemis shouted at the mind-screen, and the shimmering fours marshaled themselves into squares and sent a lattice of glittering wire flashing across the screen.

Artemis had his answer.

I was put in here by electricity, and now it’s barring my way.

Artemis knew that there were many reputable institutes around the world that still used electroshock therapy to deal with various psychotic illnesses. He realized that when Holly had blasted him with her Neutrino, the charge had boosted the Orion personality, making it the dominant one.

It’s a pity Holly wouldn’t shoot me again.

Holly shot him again.

Artemis imagined two jagged forks of white lightning skittering through the air and turning the screen white.

I shouldn’t feel any pain, reasoned Artemis hopefully, as technically I am not conscious at the moment.

Conscious or not, Artemis felt just as much agony as Orion.

Typical of the way my day has been going, he thought as his virtual legs collapsed underneath him.

The North Atlantic Ocean; Now

Artemis woke some time later with the smell of singed flesh in his nostrils. He knew he was back in the real world because of the harness digging into his shoulders and the choppy motion of the sea, which was making him nauseated.

He opened his eyes and found himself looking at Foaly’s rump. The centaur’s back leg was kicking spasmodically as he battled sleep demons. There was music playing somewhere. Familiar music. Artemis closed his eyes and thought, That music is familiar because I composed it. "Siren Song" from my unfinished Third Symphony.

And why was it important?

It is important because I set it as my ring tone for Mother. She is calling me.

Artemis did not pat his pockets searching for his phone, because he always kept his phone in the same pocket. Indeed, he always had his tailors sew a leather-flapped zipper into his right breast pocket so that his phone could not be mislaid. For if Artemis Fowl mislaid his modified phone, it would be a little more serious than if Johnny Highschool happened to lose the latest touch-screen model, unless Johnny Highschool’s phone happened to have enough tech inside it to easily hack any government site, a nice little laser pointer that could be focused to burn through metal, and the first draft of Artemis Fowl’s memoirs, which did a little more than kiss and tell.

Artemis’s fingers were cold and numb, but after a few attempts he managed to paw the zipper open and fumble out his phone. On screen the phone was playing a photo slideshow of his mother while the opening bars of "Siren Song" soared through the tiny speakers.

"Phone," he said clearly, holding in a button on the casing to activate voice control.

"Yes, Artemis," said the phone in Lily Frond’s voice, a voice that Artemis had picked simply to annoy Holly.

"Accept the call."

"Of course, Artemis."

A moment later the connection was made. The signal was weak, but that did not matter as Artemis’s phone had speech auto-fill software that was ninety-five percent accurate.

"Hello, Mother. How are you?"

"Arty, can you hear me? I’ve got an echo."

"No. No echo on this end. I can hear you perfectly."

"I can’t get the video to work, Artemis. You promised we would be able to see each other."

The video-call option was available, but Artemis rejected it, as he did not think his mother would be heartened by the view of her disheveled son hanging from a harness in a crippled escape pod.

Disheveled? Who am I kidding? I must look like a refugee from a war zone, which is what I am.

"There’s no video network in Iceland. I should have checked."

"Hmm," said his mother, and Artemis knew that syllable well. It meant that she suspected him of something, but didn’t know what, exactly.

"So you are in Iceland?"

Artemis was glad there was no video feed, as it was more difficult to lie face-to-face.

"Of course I am. Why do you ask?"

"I ask because the GPS puts you in the North Atlantic Ocean."

Artemis frowned. His mother had insisted on a GPS function on the phone if she were to allow him to go off alone.

"That’s probably just a bug in the program," said Artemis as he quickly tapped into the GPS application and manually set his location to Reykjavík. "Sometimes the locater is a little off. Give it another try."

Silence for moment, but for the tapping of keys, then another hmmm.

"I suppose it’s redundant to ask whether or not you’re up to something? Artemis Fowl is always up to something."

"That’s not fair, Mother," protested Artemis. "You know what I’m trying to achieve."

"I do know. My goodness, Arty, it’s all you can talk about. THE PROJECT."

"It is important."

"I know that, but people are important too. How’s Holly?"

Artemis glanced at Holly, who was curled around the leg of a bench, snoring quietly. Her uniform looked very battered, and there was blood leaking from one ear.

"She’s . . . em . . . fine. A little tired from the journey, but totally in control of the situation. I admire her, Mother, really I do. The way she handles whatever life throws at her and never gives up."

Angeline Fowl drew a surprised breath. "Well, Artemis Fowl the Second, that is about the longest nonscientific speech I have ever heard you make. Holly Short is lucky to have a friend like you."

"No she isn’t," said Artemis miserably. "No one is lucky to know me. I can’t help anyone. I can’t even help myself."

"That’s not true, Arty," said Angeline strictly. "Who saved Haven from the goblins?"

"A few people. I suppose I had a part in it."

"And who found his father in the Arctic when everyone else had given him up for dead?"

"That was me."

"Well, then, never say you can’t help anyone. You’ve spent most of your life helping. Yes, you’ve made a few mistakes, but your heart is in the right place."

"Thank you, Mother. I feel better now."

Angeline cleared her throat—a little nervously, Artemis thought.

"Is everything all right?" he asked.

"Yes, of course. There’s just something I need to tell you."

Artemis felt suddenly nervous. "What is it, Mother?"

A dozen possible revelations ran through his head. Had his mother found out about some of his shadier operations?

She knew all about his various fairy-related schemes, but there was plenty of human stuff he hadn’t confessed to.

That’s the problem with being a semi-reformed criminal: you are never free from guilt. Exposure is always just a phone call away.

"It’s about your birthday."

Artemis’s shoulders drooped with relief. "My birthday. Is that all?"

"I got you something . . . different, but I want you to have them. It would make me happy."

"If they make you happy, I am sure they will make me happy."

"So, Arty, you have to promise me you’ll use them."

Artemis’s nature made it hard for him to promise anything. "What are they?"

"Promise me, honey."

Artemis glanced out of the porthole. He was stuck in a burned-out escape pod in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. Either they would sink, or some Scandinavian navy would mistake them for aliens and blow their tub out of the water.

"Very well, I promise. So, what did you get for me?"

Angeline paused for a beat. "Jeans."

"What?" croaked Artemis.

"And a T-shirt."

Artemis knew that he shouldn’t really be upset, in the circumstances, but he couldn’t help himself. "Mother, you tricked me."

"Now, I know you don’t really do casual."

"That’s hardly fair. Last month at that cake sale I rolled up both sleeves."

"People are afraid of you, Arty. Girls are terrified of you. You’re a fifteen-year-old in a bespoke suit, and nobody died."

Artemis took several breaths. "Does the T-shirt have any writing on it?"

A rustling of paper crackled through the phone’s speakers. "Yes. It’s so cool. There’s a picture of a boy who for some reason has no neck and only three fingers on each hand, and behind him in a sort of graffiti style is the word randomosity. I don’t know what that means, but it sounds really current."

Randomosity, thought Artemis, and he felt like weeping. "Mother, I . . ."

"You promised, Arty. That’s what you did."

"Yes. I did promise, Mother."

"And I want you to call me Mum."

"Mother! You’re being unreasonable. I am who I am. T-shirts and jeans are not me."

Angeline Fowl played her trump card. "Well, you know, Arty dear, sometimes people are not who they think they are."

This was a none-too-subtle dig at Artemis for mesmerizing his own parents, something Angeline had only become aware of when Opal Koboi had occupied her body and all the secrets of the fairy world had become known to her.

"That’s hardly fair."

"Fair? Wait, let me call the gentlemen of the press. Artemis Fowl just used the word fair."

Artemis realized that his mother was not quite over the mesmerizing thing yet.

"Very well. I consent to wearing the jeans and T-shirt."

"Excuse me?"

"Very well. I will wear the jeans and T-shirt . . . Mum."

"I am so happy. Tell Butler to put by two days a week. Jeans and Mums. Get used to it."

What’s next? Artemis wondered. Baseball hats worn back to front?

"Butler is taking good care of you, I trust?"

Artemis colored. More lies. "Yes. You should see his face at this meeting. He is bored out of his mind with all the science."

Angeline’s voice changed, became warmer, more emotional.

"I know it’s important, Arty, what you’re doing. Important for the planet, I mean. And I believe in you, son. Which is why I am keeping your secret and letting you gallivant across the globe with fairy folk, but you have to promise me that you’re safe."

Artemis had heard the expression to feel like a real heel, but now he actually understood it.

"I am the safest human in the world," he said jauntily. "I have more protection than a president. I’m better armed too."

Yet another hmmm. "This is the last solo mission, Arty. You promised me. ‘I just have to save the world,’ you said. ‘Then I can spend more time with the twins.’"

"I remember," said Artemis, which wasn’t really agreeing.

"See you tomorrow morning, then. The dawn of a new day."

"See you tomorrow morning, Mum."

Angeline hung up, and her picture disappeared from Artemis’s screen. He was sorry to see it go.

On the deck, Foaly suddenly flipped onto his back.

"Not the stripy ones," he blurted. "They’re just little babies." Then he opened his eyes and saw Artemis watching him.

"Did I say that out loud?"

Artemis nodded. "Yes. Something about the stripy ones being babies."

"Childhood memory. I’m pretty much over it now."

Artemis stretched out a hand to help the centaur to his hooves.

"No help from you," Foaly moaned, slapping at the hand as though it were a wasp. "I have had enough of you.

If you even think the phrase goodly beast, I am going to kick you straight in the teeth."

Artemis slapped the buckle on his chest, opening the harness, stretching his hand out farther.

"I am sorry about all of that, Foaly. But I’m fine now. It’s me, Artemis."

Now Foaly accepted the steadying hand. "Oh, thank the gods. That other guy was really getting on my nerves."

"Not so fast," said Holly, appearing fully conscious between the two.

"Whoa," said Foaly, rearing. "Don’t you moan and groan a bit when you regain consciousness?"

"Nope," said Holly. "LEP ninja training. And this guy isn’t Artemis. He said Mum. I heard him. Artemis Fowl doesn’t say Mum, Mummy, Mom, or Momsy. This is Orion trying to pull a fast one."

"I realize how it sounded," said Artemis. "But you have to believe me. My mother extorted that term of endearment from me."

Foaly tapped his long chin. "Extorted? Endearment? It’s Artemis, all right."

"Thanks for shooting me the second time," said Artemis, touching the burn marks on his neck. "The charge set me free from the fours, for the time being. And I’m sorry about all that rubbish Orion was spouting. I have no idea where that came from."

"We need to talk about that at great length," said Holly, brushing past him to the dashboard. "But later. First, let’s see if I can raise Haven."

Foaly tapped a button on his phone’s screen. "Already on it, Captain."

After all the drama of the previous few hours, it seemed impossible that they could simply phone Haven and get a connection just like that, but that’s exactly what happened.

Commander Trouble Kelp picked up on the first ring, and Foaly put the video call on speaker.

"Holly? Is that you?"

"Yes, Commander. I have Foaly with me, and Artemis Fowl."

Trouble grunted. "Artemis Fowl. Why am I not surprised? We should have sucked that Mud Whelp’s brain out through his ear when we had the chance."

Trouble Kelp was famous for his gung-ho attitude— that and the fact that he had chosen Trouble as his graduation name. There was an honest-to-gods true story going around the Academy that, as a lowly street cop, young Officer Kelp drove his riot scooter down an alley in Boolatown during the solstice and PAed to a dozen or so scrapping goblins the immortal line: If you’re looking for trouble, you’ve come to the right place. After the goblins had finished laughing, they gave Trouble a hiding he did not soon forget. The scars made him a little more cautious, but not much.

Trouble sat at his desk in Police Plaza, ramrod straight in his blue commander’s jumpsuit, acorn cluster glittering on his chest. His dark hair was close-cropped over impressive pointed ears, and deep purple eyes glared out from under brows that jinked like lightning bolts as he spoke.

"Hello, Commander," said Artemis. "Nice to be appreciated."

"I appreciate armpit lice more than I’m ever likely to appreciate you, Fowl. Get over it."

Artemis could think of half a dozen withering responses to this comment off the top of his head, but he kept these put-downs to himself for the greater good.

I am fifteen now; time to behave maturely.

Holly cut through the male posturing. "Commander, is Atlantis safe?"

"Most of it," said Trouble. "Half a dozen evac ships took a pasting. One shuttle suffered a direct hit, buried deeper than hell itself. It’s going to take months to put the pieces together."

Holly’s shoulders drooped. "Casualties?"

"Definitely. We don’t know how many yet, but dozens." Trouble’s brow was heavy with the weight of command. "It’s a dark day for the People, Captain. First Vinyáya and her troops, now this."

"What happened?"

Trouble’s gaze shifted to a point off screen as his fingers tapped a V-board. "One of Foaly’s brainers did a simulation. I’m sending it to you now."

Seconds later, a message icon pulsed on the screen of Foaly’s phone. Holly selected it, and a simple 2-D video played, depicting an outlined probe entering the Earth’s atmosphere over Iceland.

"Can you see that, Captain?"

"Yes, it’s up."

"Good. Let me talk you through it. So, Foaly’s Martian probe shows up just below the Arctic Circle. We’re taking your word for this since we didn’t detect it, thanks to our own cloaking technology. Shields, stealth ore, all turned against us. I don’t have to tell you what happened next."

On screen the probe sent a laser burst into a small target on the surface, then jettisoned a few bots to deal with survivors. The craft barely slowed down before plowing through the ice, taking a southwesterly course toward the Atlantic.

"Again, this part of the simulation was done without computer data. We took what you told us and also extrapolated backward from our own readings."

Artemis interrupted. "You had readings? At what point did you start to get readings?"

"It was the strangest thing," said Trouble, frowning. "We heeded Captain Short’s warning and ran a scan. Nothing. Then, five minutes later, up the probe pops on our screens. No shields, nothing. In fact, she was blowing heat out the vents, so we couldn’t miss her. She even blew her engine plates off. The thing was shining brighter than the North Star. And just in case we missed it, we got a tip-off from a bar in Miami, of all places. We had time enough to evacuate."

"But not enough to reach her," mused Artemis.

"Exactly," said Trouble Kelp, who wouldn’t have agreed if it had occurred to him that he was agreeing with arch-criminal Artemis Fowl. "All we could do was pump up the water cannons, empty the city, and wait until the probe came into range."

"And then?" prompted Artemis.

"Then I authorized a few practice shots along the trajectory before the probe was really in range. There shouldn’t have been enough power in them to cause any damage—the water shells dissipate over distance—but one must have held on to a bit of punch, because the probe spun off course and nose-dived straight into the seabed, taking a shuttle down with it."

"Opal Koboi was on that shuttle, wasn’t she?" said Artemis urgently. "This is all her doing. This reeks of Opal."

"No, Fowl, if it reeks of anyone, it reeks of you. This all started with your conference in Iceland, and now some of our best people are dead, and we have an underwater rescue mission on our hands."

Artemis’s face was red. "Forget how you feel about me. Was Opal on the shuttle?"

"She was not," thundered Trouble, and the pod’s speakers vibrated. "But you were in Iceland, and now you’re here."

Holly stepped in to defend her friend. "Artemis had nothing to do with this, Commander."

"That may be, but there are too many coincidences here, Holly. I need you to detain the Mud Boy until I can get a rescue bird up to you. It could be a few hours, so take on some ballast in the tanks and drop your buoyancy a little. You shouldn’t be spotted below the surface."

Holly was not happy with this course of action. "Sir, Commander, we know what happened. But Artemis is right—we need to think about who made it happen."

"We can talk about that in Police Plaza. For now, my priority is to keep people alive, simple as that. There are fairies still trapped in Atlantis. Everything watertight we have is headed there right now. We can discuss the Mud Boy’s theories tomorrow."

"Maybe we can construct a bivouac while we’re at it," muttered Holly.

Trouble Kelp was not one to swallow insubordination. He leaned close to the camera, his forehead stretching wide in the pinhole lens.

"Did you say something, Captain?"

"Whoever did this is not finished," said Holly, doing a little leaning in herself. "This is part of a bigger plan, and detaining Artemis is the worst possible thing you could do."

"Oh, really," said Trouble, chuckling unexpectedly. "Odd you should say that, because in the message you sent earlier, you commented that Artemis Fowl had lost it. Your exact words were—"

Holly glanced guiltily at Artemis. "No need for the exact words, sir."

"Sir now, is it? Your exact words were, and I quote— obviously since they are your exact words—you said that Artemis Fowl was ‘crazier than a salt-water-drinking troll with ringworm.’"

Artemis shot Holly a recriminating look that said:

Ringworm? Really?

Holly brushed the comment aside with a hand. "That was earlier. I have shot Artemis twice since then, and he’s fine now."

Trouble grinned. "You shot him twice. That’s more like it."

"The point is," Holly persisted, "we need Artemis to help figure this out."

"Like he figured out Julius Root and Commander Raine Vinyáya."

"That is not fair, Trouble."

Kelp was unrepentant. "You can call me Trouble in the officers’ club on the weekend. Until then it’s Commander. And I order you, no, I command you to detain the human Artemis Fowl. We’re not arresting him—I just want him down here for a little chat. What I certainly do not want is for us to act on any of his notions. Understood?"

Holly’s face was wooden and her voice dull. "Understood, Commander."

"Your pod has enough juice to power the locator, no more, so don’t even think about making for the shore. You look a shade paler than death, Captain, so I’m guessing you don’t have any spare magic for shielding."

"Paler than death? Thanks, Trubs."

"Trubs, Captain? Trubs?"

"I meant Trouble."

"That’s better. So all I want you to do is sit on the Mud Boy. Got it?"

Holly’s words were so honeyed that they could have charmed a bear. "I’ve got it good, Trouble. Captain Holly Short, babysitter extraordinaire, at your service."

"Hmmm," said Trouble, in a tone that Angeline Fowl’s son understood very well.

"Hmmm, indeed," said Holly.

"I’m glad we understand each other," said Trouble, with a flicker of one eyelid that could be interpreted as a wink. "I, as your superior, am telling you to stay put and not make any attempt to get to the bottom of what’s really going on here, especially not with the help of a human, especially especially not that particular human. Do you read me?"

"I read you loud and clear, Trouble," said Holly, and Artemis understood that Trouble Kelp was not forbidding Holly to investigate further—he was actually covering himself on video in case Holly’s actions resulted in a tribunal, which they often did.

"I read you loud and clear too, Commander," said Artemis. "If that makes any difference."

Trouble snorted. "Remember those armpit lice, Fowl? Their opinions make more difference to me than yours."

And he was gone before Artemis could trot out one of his pre-prepared retorts. And in years to come, when Professor J. Argon published the best-selling Artemis Fowl biography, Fowl and Fairy, this particular exchange would be deemed significant as one of the few times anyone got the last word over Artemis Fowl II.

Holly made a sound that was a little like a shriek, but not as girly and with more frustration.

"What’s the matter?" asked Foaly. "I thought that went pretty well. It seemed to me that Commander Trouble Kelp, a.k.a. your boyfriend, gave us the green light to investigate."

Holly turned her mismatched eyes on him. "First of all, he’s not my boyfriend—we went on one date, and I told you that in confidence because I thought you were a friend who wouldn’t trot it out at the first opportunity."

"It’s not the first opportunity. I held it back the time when we had that lovely tea."

"Irrelevant!" shouted Holly, through funneled hands.

"Don’t worry, Holly, it stays in this room," said Foaly, thinking it would be a bad time to mention that he had posted the gossip on his Web site www.horsesense.gnom.

"And secondly," continued Holly, "maybe Trouble did give me the backhanded go-ahead, but what good is that to us in the middle of the Atlantic in a dead lump of metal?"

Artemis glanced skyward. "Ah, you see, I might be able to help you there. Any second now."

Several seconds passed by without any significant change in their situation.

Holly raised her palms. "Any second? Really?" Artemis couldn’t help being a little peeved. "Not literally. It might take a minute or so. Perhaps I should call him."

Fifty-nine seconds later, something bonged against the pod’s hatch.

"Aha," said Artemis, in a way that made Holly feel like punching him.

Over the Atlantic; Two Hours Earlier

"This is not a bad ship, as it happens," said Mulch Diggums, pushing a couple of buttons on the stolen mercenaries’ ship just to see what they did. When one caused the contents of the sewage recycler to be dumped on an innocent Scottish deep-sea trawler below, the dwarf decided to stop pushing.

(One of the fishermen happened to be making a video of gulls for his university media course and caught the entire descending blob of waste matter on film. It seemed to anyone who saw the tape as though the ponging mass just appeared in the sky then dropped rapidly onto the unfortunate sailors. Sky News ran the video with the headline: Panic on the Poop Deck. The segment was largely dismissed as a student prank.)

"I should have guessed that one," Mulch said, without a trace of guilt. "There’s a little picture of a toilet on the button."

Juliet sat hunched over on one of the passenger benches that ran along one side of the cargo bay, her head tipping the ceiling, and Butler lay flat on the other one, as it was the most practical way for him to travel.

"So Artemis has been shutting you out?" she asked her brother.

"Yes," replied Butler dejectedly. "I’d swear he doesn’t trust me anymore. I’d swear he doesn’t even trust his own mother."

"Angeline? How could anyone not trust Mrs. Fowl? That’s ridiculous."

"I know," said Butler. "And I’ll go one better. Artemis doesn’t trust the twins."

Juliet started, bumping her head on the metal ceiling. "Oww. Madre de dios. Artemis doesn’t trust Myles and Beckett? That’s just ridiculous. What terrible acts of sabotage are three-year-olds supposed to commit?"

Butler grimaced. "Unfortunately, Myles contaminated one of Artemis’s petri dishes when he wanted a sample for his own experiments."

"That’s hardly industrial espionage. What did Beckett do?"

"He ate Artemis’s hamster."

"What?"

"Well, he chewed on its leg for a bit." Butler shifted in the cramped space. Fairy crafts were not built to accommodate giant, shaven-headed, human bodyguards. Not that the shaved head made much difference.

"Artemis was livid, claimed there was a conspiracy against him. He installed a combination lock on his lab door to keep his brothers out."

Juliet grinned, though she knew she shouldn’t. "Did that work?"

"No. Myles stayed at the door for three days straight, tapping away until he came across the correct combination. He used several rolls of toilet paper writing down the possibilities."

Juliet was almost afraid to ask. "What did Beckett do?"

Butler grinned back at his sister. "Beckett dug a bear trap in the garden, and when Myles fell in, he swapped him a ladder for the code."

Juliet nodded appreciatively. "That’s what I would have done."

"Me too," said Butler. "Maybe Beckett will end up as Myles’s bodyguard." The light moment didn’t last long. "Artemis isn’t taking my calls. Imagine that. I think he’s changed his SIM, so I can’t track him."

"But we are tracking him, right?"

Butler checked his touch-screen phone. "Oh yes. Artemis isn’t the only one with Foaly’s phone number."

"What did that sneaky centaur give you?"

"An isotope spray. You just spray it on a surface, then track it with one of Foaly’s mi-p’s."

"Meepees?"

"Mini-programs. Foaly uses it to keep an eye on his kids."

"Where did you spray it?"

"Artemis’s shoes."

Juliet giggled. "He does like ’em shiny."

"Yes, he does."

"You’re starting to think like a Fowl, brother."

Mulch Diggums called back from the cockpit. "Gods help us all. That’s what the world needs, more Fowls."

They all shared a guilty laugh at that.

The mercenary gyro tracked the Gulf Stream north to the coast of Ireland, moving at slightly more than twice the speed ever achieved by the Concorde, then swung in a long northwesterly arc into the North Atlantic as its computer zeroed in on Artemis’s footwear.

"Artemis’s shoes are walking us right to him," said Mulch, chortling at his own joke. The Butlers did not join in the mirth, not from any loyalty to their employer, who enjoyed the occasional joke, but because Mulch’s mouth was packed with the contents of the shuttle’s cooler box, and they had no idea what he had just said.

"Please yourselves," said Mulch, spattering the inside of the windshield with chewed sweet corn. "I make the effort to speak in humanese, and you two joke snobs won’t even laugh at my efforts."

The shuttle rocketed along, six feet above the wave tops, its anti-grav pulses burrowing periodic cylinders into the ocean’s surface. The engine noise was low and could have been mistaken for a whistling wind, and to any smart mammals below who could see through the shields, the shuttle could be mistaken for a very fast humpback with an extra-wide tail and a loading bay.

"We really lucked out with this bucket," commented Mulch, his mouth mercifully empty. "She’s more or less flying herself. I just put your phone into the dock, opened the mi-p, and off she went."

The craft behaved a little like a tracker dog, suddenly coming to a dead stop whenever it lost the scent, then casting its prow about furiously until the isotope showed up again. At one point it had plunged into the ocean, burrowing straight down until pressure cracked the fuselage plates, and they lost a square foot of shielding.

"Don’t worry, Mud Men," Mulch had reassured them. "All fairy craft have sea engines. When you live underground, it makes sense to build watertight ships."

Juliet had not ceased to worry: from what she remembered, reassurance from Mulch Diggums was about as reliable as a cocktail from the Pittsburgh Poisoner.

Fortunately, the underwater jaunt hadn’t lasted too long, and soon they were flitting across the wave tops once more without incident, except for the time when Mulch forgot his promise not to press mysterious buttons and almost crashed them into the sun-flecked seas by releasing the emergency-brake mini-parachute cluster.

"It was calling me, that button," he offered as his excuse. "I couldn’t resist."

The jolting stop had shunted Butler along the bench. He slid the entire length of the fuselage into the cockpit divider. Only his lightning reactions stopped him from getting his head jammed in the railings.

Butler rubbed his crown, which he had clipped on a bar. "Take it easy, or there will be consequences. You said it yourself: we don’t need you to fly the ship."

Mulch guffawed, giving a nasty view of his cavernous food pipe. "That’s true, Butler, my freakishly large friend. But you certainly need me to land it."

Juliet’s laugh was high and sweet and seemed to ricochet off the curved metal walls.

"You too, Juliet?" said Butler reproachfully.

"Come on, brother. That was funny. You’ll laugh too when Mulch plays back the video."

"There’s video?" said Butler, which just set the other two laughing again.

All of this laughing did nothing to delay Butler’s reunion with his principal, Artemis Fowl. A principal who no longer trusted him and who had probably lied to him, sending Butler to another continent and using Juliet to ensure that he would travel.

I believed that my own baby sister was in danger. Artemis, how could you?

There would be tough questions asked when he finally caught up with Artemis. And the answers had better be good or, for the first time in the history of their families’ centuries-long relationship, a Butler might just walk away from his duties.

Artemis is ill, Butler rationalized. He’s not responsible.

Maybe Artemis was not responsible. But he soon would be.

The mercenaries’ shuttle finally jerked to a halt over a spot of open ocean just above the sixtieth parallel. It was a spot that seemed no different than the square gray miles that stretched away on all sides, until the anti-grav pillar plowed through six feet of water below, revealing the arrowhead escape pod.

"I love this ship," Mulch crowed. "It makes me look smarter-er than I am."

The surrounding waters churned and boiled as the invisible pulses tested the surface and compacted the waves enough to keep the ship hovering in place. Down below, the pulses would sound like bell clappers on the pod’s skin.

"Hello," called Mulch. "We’re up here."

Butler stuck his head and shoulders into the cockpit, which was about all of him that could fit.

"Can’t we radio them?"

"Radio?" said the dwarf. "You don’t know much about being a fugitive, do you? The first thing you do when you steal an LEP ship is strip out anything that could carry a signal to Police Plaza. Every wire, every fuse, every lens. All gone. I’ve known guys who got caught because they left the sound system in. That’s an old Foaly trick. He knows bad boys love their loud music, so he installs a set of speakers to kill for in every LEP bird, each one loaded with tracer gel. There’s hardly any tech left in here."

"So?"

"So what?" said Mulch, as if he had no idea what they were talking about.

"So how do we communicate with that ship down there?"

"You have a phone, don’t you?"

Butler’s eyes dropped to the floor. "Artemis is not taking my calls. He’s not himself."

"That’s terrible," said Mulch. "But do you think they have food? Some of those escape pods have emergency rations. A little chewy, but okay with a nice bottle of beer."

Butler was wondering whether this change of subject warranted a clip on the ear, when his phone rang.

"It’s Artemis," he said, seeming a little more shocked than when he’d been surrounded by luchador zombies.

"Butler?" said Artemis’s voice.

"Yes, Artemis."

"We need to talk."

"You’d better make it good," said Butler, and severed the connection.

It took mere moments to winch down a bucket seat to the pod below, and another few minutes for the pod’s occupants to clamber into the mercenaries’ shuttle. Holly was the last up as she pulled the scuttle cord and opened the escape pod’s ballast tanks wide before she left, sinking the craft.

As soon as her elbow crabbed over the doorway’s lip, Holly began giving orders.

"Monitor LEP channels on the radio," she barked. "We need to find out how the investigation is proceeding."

Mulch grinned from the pilot’s chair. "Aha, you see that might be a problem, this being a stolen ship and all. Not much in the way of communications. And hello, by the way. I’m fine, still alive, and all that. Happy to be able to save your life. Also, what investigation are we talking about?"

Holly pulled herself all the way inside, glancing regretfully down at the sinking pod with its—until recently— functional communications array.

"Ah well," she sighed. "You work with whatever limited resources you have."

"Thanks a bunch," said Mulch, miffed. "Did you bring any food? I haven’t eaten for, wow, it must be minutes."

"No, no food," said Holly. She hugged Mulch tightly, one of perhaps four people in the world who would voluntarily touch the dwarf, then pushed him out of the pilot’s chair, taking his place. "That will have to do for niceties. I’ll buy you an entire barbecue hamper later."

"With real meat?"

Holly shuddered. "Of course not. Don’t be disgusting."

Butler sat up and spared a moment to nod at Holly, then turned his full attention on Artemis, who carried himself like the Artemis of old but without the customary cockiness.

"Well?" said Butler, the single syllable laden with implication. If I do not like what I hear, it could be the end of the road for us.

Artemis knew that the situation merited at least a hug, and some day in the future, after years of meditation, he might feel comfortable spontaneously hugging people, but at this moment it was all he could do to lay a hand on Juliet’s shoulder and another on Butler’s forearm.

"I am so sorry, my friends, to have lied to you."

Juliet covered the hand with her own, for that was her nature, but Butler raised his as though he were being arrested.

"Juliet could have died, Artemis. We were forced to fight off a horde of mesmerized wrestling fans and a ship-load of dwarf mercenaries. We were both in grave danger."

Artemis pulled away, the moment of emotion past. "Real danger? Then someone has been spying on me. Someone who knew our movements. Possibly the same someone who sent the probe to kill Vinyáya and target Atlantis."

Over the next few minutes, while Holly ran a systems check and plotted a course for the crash site, Artemis brought Butler and Juliet up to speed, saving the diagnosis of his own illness for last.

"I have a disorder which the fairies call an Atlantis Complex. It is similar to obsessive-compulsive disorder but also manifests as delusional dementia and even multiple personality." Butler nodded slowly. "I see. So when you sent me away, you were in the grips of this Atlantis Complex."

"Exactly. I was in stage one, which involves a large dose of paranoia as one of its symptoms. You missed stage two."

"Lucky for you," Holly called back from the cockpit. "That Orion guy was a little too friendly."

"My subconscious built the Orion personality as my alter ego. Artemis, I’m sure you remember, was the goddess of the hunt, and legend has it that Orion was Artemis’s mortal enemy, so she sent a scorpion to kill him. In my mind Orion was free from the guilt I harbored from my various schemes, especially the guilt of mesmerizing my parents, kidnapping Holly, and, crucially, seeing my mother possessed by Opal. Perhaps had I not dabbled in magic I might have developed a slight personality disorder, maybe even Child Genius Syndrome, but with my neural pathways coated with stolen magic I know now that it was inevitable I would succumb to Atlantis." Artemis dropped his eyes. "What I did was shameful. I was weak and I will carry regret for the rest of my life."

Butler’s face softened. "Are you well now? Did the electrocution do the trick?"

Foaly was getting a little tired of Artemis doing all the lecturing, so he cleared his throat and volunteered some information. "According to my phone’s mi-p almanac, shock treatment is an archaic treatment and rarely permanent. Atlantis Complex can be cured, but only through extended therapy and the careful use of psychoactive drugs. Soon, Artemis’s compulsions will return and he will feel an irresistible urge to complete his mission, to number things, and to avoid the number four, which I believe sounds like the Chinese word for death."

"So, Artemis is not cured?"

Artemis was suddenly glad that there were five other people in the shuttle. A good omen for success.

"No. I am not cured yet."

Omens? It begins again.

Artemis actually wrung his hands, a physical sign of his determination.

I will not be beaten by this so soon.

And to prove it, he deliberately composed a sentence with four words.

"I will be fine."

"Oooh," said Mulch, who always had trouble grasping the gravity of situations. "Four. Scary."

The first thing was to get them down to the crash site, as it seemed obvious to everyone except Mulch that the space probe did not navigate its way through the atmosphere with pinpoint accuracy just to accidentally crash into a prison shuttle. With Holly at the controls, the stolen ship was soon slicing through the Atlantic depths, trailing intertwining streams of air bubbles.

"There’s something afoot here," mused Artemis, gripping the fingers of his left hand tightly to stop them from shaking. "Vinyáya was taken out to hobble the LEP, then the probe gives up its own position, and someone phones in a tip allowing the Atlantis authorities just enough time to evacuate, and then the probe lands on a shuttle. Bad luck for the occupants?"

"Is that one of those rhetorical questions?" wondered Mulch. "I can never get the hang of those. Also, while we’re on the subject, what’s the difference between a metaphor and a simile?"

Holly snapped her fingers. "Somebody wanted everybody in the shuttle dead."

"Somebody wanted us to think that everyone in the shuttle was dead," corrected Artemis. "What a way to fake your own death. It will be months before the LEP can put the pieces together, if ever. That’s a nice head start for a fugitive."

Holly turned to Foaly. "I need to know who was on that prison shuttle. Do you have an inside guy in Police Plaza?"

Butler was surprised. "Inside guy? I thought you guys were the inside guys."

"We’re a little on the outside at the moment," admitted Holly. "I’m supposed to be detaining Artemis."

Juliet clapped her hands. "Have you ever actually obeyed an order?"

"It was kind of a non-order, and anyway I only obey orders when they are sound. In this case, it would be ridiculous to sit around for an hour in a burned-out pod while our enemy, whoever it is, gets on with phase two."

"I agree," said Artemis, keeping his voice level.

"How can we be sure there is a phase two?" Butler asked.

Artemis smiled grimly. "Of course there is phase two. Our opponent is fiendish and clever—there will never be a better time to drive home his advantage. It’s what I would have done, a few years ago." His normal calm shattered for a moment, and he snapped at Foaly. "I need that list, Foaly. Who was on that prison shuttle?"

"Okay, okay, Mud Boy. I’m working on it. I need to go the long way around so my enquiries don’t land on Trouble’s desk. This is technical, complicated stuff."

What the centaur would never admit was that he was actually asking his gifted nephew Mayne to hack into the police live site and text him the list in return for an extra-large ice-cream cone when he returned home.

"Okay. I have it, from my . . . eh . . . source."

"Just tell me, Foaly."

Foaly projected a screen from his phone to the wall. Beside each name there was a link to a data charge that would tell you everything about the prisoner right down to the color of his underpants, if that’s what you really wanted to know, and fairy psychologists were becoming more and more convinced that undergarment coloring was a vital part of a person’s development. Mulch spotted a name he knew, and it wasn’t a criminal.

"Hey, look. Old Vishby was piloting. They must have given him his license back."

"Do you know him, Mulch?" asked Holly sharply.

For such a hardened ex-criminal, Mulch had a soft center. "Hey, why so crabby? I’m trying to help out here. Of course I know him. It would be pretty weird me saying ‘Hey, look, old Vishby, they gave him his license back’ if I didn’t know him."

Holly took a breath, reminding herself how Mulch had to be handled. "You’re right, of course. So how do you know old Vishby?"

"Funny story, really," replied Mulch, smacking his lips, wishing he had a chicken leg to go along with the story. "I escaped from him a few years ago when you were in the frame for murdering Julius. He never got over it. He still hates me, hates the LEP too for taking his licence. Sends me abusive mails occasionally. I send him back little vid boxes of myself laughing. Drives him crazy."

"Someone with a grudge," said Artemis. "Interesting. The perfect inside man. But who’s running him?"

Holly turned to study the projected list.

"This sprite, Unix. I took him in. He’s one of Turnball Root’s boys. A cold-blooded killer." Holly paled. "Bobb Ragby is on here too. And Turnball himself. All these guys are Turnball’s. How in the name of the gods did he get his entire gang on one shuttle? This would have raised a dozen flags on the computer."

"Unless . . ." said Artemis, scrolling down the list on Foaly’s screen. He tapped the data charge beside Bobb Ragby. His picture and file opened on a separate window, and Artemis quickly scanned it. "Look, there’s no mention of Turnball Root. According to this, Ragby was arrested for mail fraud and has no known affiliations or accomplices." He tapped another link and read aloud. "‘File updated by . . . Mr. Vishby.’"

Holly was in shock. "It’s Turnball Root. He set this up."

Holly herself had been responsible for the capture of Julius’s brother during her Recon initiation exercise. It was a story she had told Foaly many times.

"It would appear that Turnball is our adversary, which is not good news. But even taking his intellect and his hold over this Vishby person into account, we still don’t know how he commandeered a space probe."

"It’s just not possible," said Foaly, adding an equine harrumph to lend weight to a statement that even he did not believe.

"Possible or not, we’ll have to talk about it later," said Holly, leveling the craft to just off horizontal. "We’re at the crash site."

Everyone was relieved that the stolen ship had made it down in one piece. The mercenaries had probably stripped out much of what they didn’t need, to save weight, and, more than likely, they had been a little reckless with the crowbars as they’d gone about it. One loose rivet or cracked weld line would have been enough to allow a few atmospheres to squirt out, and the ship would have been crushed like a soda can in the hand of a giant who was immensely strong and didn’t like soda cans.

But the ship held its integrity in spite of an ominous rippling along the fuselage, which appeared suddenly.

"Who cares?" said Mulch, as usual failing to see the big picture. "It’s not even our ship. What are those mercenaries going to do, sue?" But even as he spoke, Mulch’s humor was tinged with loss.

I can never go back to The Sozzled Parrot again, he realized. And they served great curry. Real meat too.

Outside and below, Atlantis rescue ships buzzed around the distressed shuttles, working hard to build a pressure dome so the crews could get some magic to the injured. Sea workers in pressure exo-armor hammered through rocks and debris on the seabed to lay a foam seal to build the dome upon. Nobody was too concerned about the crash site itself, for the time being. The living came first.

"I should call in this Turnball Root theory," said Holly. "Commander Kelp will act on it."

"We have to act first," said Artemis. "Haven won’t have its ships here for at least an hour. By then it will be too late. We need to find evidence so that Trouble can make a case to the Council."

Holly’s fingers hesitated over Foaly’s phone. There wasn’t time to get into a strategy discussion with the commander. She knew Trouble’s mind well: it didn’t take that long to get to know. If she called him now, he would suggest a strategy that involved them waiting until he arrived, and possibly some form of bivouac.

So instead of making a vid-call, she sent a brief text highlighting Turnball Root’s name on the passenger list they weren’t supposed to have, and switched off the phone.

"He’s bound to call back," she explained. "I’ll switch it on again when we have something to tell him."

Foaly glowered at her. "I’m going to miss my crunchball league updates," he said; then, "I know that sounds petty, but I pay a subscription."

Artemis was concentrating on a problem to take his mind off the wall of sparkling fours that had followed him from his mind-screen and seemed to be hovering all around.

Not there, he told himself. Focus on the Houdini act.

"How did Turnball get out of the ship alive?" he wondered aloud. "Foaly, can we access local CCTV?"

"Not with this ship. This was once a beautiful emergency vehicle. I helped design the model. Talk about high spec—you could run an entire disaster-site cleanup from this beauty, once upon a time. Now there’s barely enough tech in here to stop us from crashing into a wall."

"So there’s no way of telling if any ships rendezvoused with the prison shuttle?"

"Not from here," said Foaly.

"I need to know how Turnball escaped," shouted Artemis, losing his cool again. "How else am I supposed to find him? Doesn’t anyone else see this? Am I alone in the universe?"

Butler shifted until he sat hunched over Artemis, almost enfolding him with his bulk. "You’re the one who sees, Artemis. That’s your gift. We’re the ones who get there eventually."

"Speak for yourself," said Mulch. "I usually never get there. And when I do, I never like it, especially when Artemis is involved."

A bead of sweat lodged in the frown wrinkle between Artemis’s eyes. "I know, old friend. I just need to work— that is the only thing that can save me." He thought hard for a moment. "Can we run a scan to detect the ion trail of another ship?"

"Of course," said Foaly. "Even this stripped-back tub can’t do without an omni-sensor." He opened a program on the screen, and a dark blue filter dropped over their view. The ion trails of the rescue ships showed up as spectral beams following behind their engines like glowworms. One such beam led to the impact site from the direction of Atlantis, and another far more substantial column of light had plowed down from above.

"There’s the prison shuttle and there’s the probe. Nothing else. How did he do it?"

"Maybe he didn’t do it," suggested Juliet. "Maybe his plan went wrong. A lot of geniuses have been totally screwing up lately, if you see what I am trying to say, Artemis."

Artemis half-smiled. "I see what you are trying to say, Juliet. Mainly because you are saying it clearly and bluntly with no attempt to spare my feelings."

"In fairness, Artemis," said Juliet, "we were almost crushed to death by mesmerized wrestling fans, so I feel you can put up with a little ribbing. Also, I don’t work for you, so you can’t order me to shut up. You could dock Butler’s salary, I suppose, but I can live with that."

Artemis nodded at Holly. "I don’t suppose you two could be related?" Then he jumped to his feet, almost bashing his head on the ship’s low ceiling. "Foaly, I need to go down there."

Holly tapped the depth gauge. "No problem. I can come around behind that ridge and keep us hidden from the rescue ships. Even if they do see us, they’ll assume we’ve been sent by Haven. Worst-case scenario, they order us to back away from the crime scene."

"I meant I need to go outside," clarified Artemis.

"There’s a pressure suit in that cubby, and I need to take Foaly’s phone and search for clues the old-fashioned way."

"The old-fashioned way," repeated Mulch. "With a futuristic pressure suit and a fairy phone."

A raft of vocal objections followed:

"You can’t go—it’s too dangerous."

"I shall go in your place."

"Why does it have to be my phone?"

Artemis waited until the clamor had died down, then dealt with the protests in his usual terse, patronizing manner.

"I must go because the next stage of Turnball’s plan obviously involves further loss of life, and the lives of many are more important than the lives of the few."

"I saw that on Star Trek," said Mulch.

"It must be me," continued Artemis. "Because there is only one suit, and it appears to be approximately my size. And, if I’m not mistaken—and it would be highly unusual that I would be—a correct fit is vital, where pressure suits are concerned, unless you want your eyeballs popping out of their sockets."

If someone else had said this, it might be considered a joke to lift the atmosphere, but from the mouth of Artemis Fowl it was a simple statement of fact.

"And finally, Foaly, it has to be your phone because, knowing your build standards as I do, it was made to withstand great pressures. Am I correct?"

"You are," said Foaly, accepting the compliment with a nod of his long face. "About the fit of the suit too. These things won’t even seal properly if they don’t like your dimensions."

Butler was not pleased, but in the end he was the employee, though Artemis did not play that card. "I must go, Butler," said Artemis firmly. "My mind is eating me alive. I think the guilt is the main problem. I must do whatever I can to atone."

"And?" said Butler, unconvinced.

Artemis held his arms out so that Foaly could drape the suit sleeves over them.

"And I will not be beaten by that jackass."

"Jackass?" said Foaly, wounded. "My favorite uncle is a jackass."

The pressure suit was actually two suits. The inner layer was a one-piece membrane threaded with life support, and the outer shell was body armor with a volatile surface that absorbed the water pressure and used it to power the servo mechanisms. Very clever, as you would expect from Koboi Laboratories.

"Koboi," muttered Artemis, dismayed when he saw the logo. Even a person not obsessed with omens would be a little put out by his nemesis’s signature etched into the suit that was supposed to save his life. "I am not buoyed by that."

"You are not supposed to be buoyed," said Foaly, lowering the transparent helmet bubble. "You are supposed to be equalized."

"I’m pretty sure that both of you just made really horrible jokes," said Mulch, who was chewing something he had found somewhere. "But I’m not sure because I think you broke my funny bone."

At this point, Mulch’s comments were like background chatter and were almost soothingly constant.

Foaly fixed his phone to an omni-sensor at the front of the helmet. "It would take a swipe from a whale’s tail to knock this loose. It’s good for any depths or pressure you are likely to encounter, and will even pick up the vibration of your speech and convert them to sound waves. But do try to enunciate."

"You stick close to the rock face," said Butler, cradling the helmet to make sure Artemis was paying attention. "And at the first sign of trouble, I’m making the call to reel you in, not you. Do you understand, Artemis?"

Artemis nodded. The suit was connected to a dock on the ship’s hull by a signature electromagnetic beam, which would zap it back to base in case of emergency.

"Just have a quick look around the site with Foaly’s phone, and back you come. Ten minutes is all you get; then you’ll have to follow another lead. Got it?"

Another nod from Artemis, but it seemed more like he was shutting out something than actually listening to Butler’s words.

Butler snapped his fingers. "Focus, Artemis! Time enough for your Atlantis Complex later. We have the Atlantis Trench outside that door and six miles of water above it. If you want to stay alive, you need to stay alert." He turned to Holly. "This is ridiculous. I’m pulling the plug."

Holly’s mouth was a tight line as she shook her head. "Navy rules, Butler. You’re on my boat, you follow my orders."

"As I remember, I brought the boat."

"Yes, thanks for bringing my boat."

Artemis used this exchange to move closer to the rear air lock, a tight space where Butler could not follow.

"Ten minutes, old friend," he said, his voice robotic through the helmet speaker. "Then you can reel me back in."

Butler suddenly thought about how Angeline Fowl would react when she heard about this latest escapade.

"Artemis, wait. There must be another way. . . ."

But his objection bounced off a wall of Perspex as the air lock dividing wall slid down with a noise like ball bearings rolling around the bottom of a can.

"I don’t like that ball-bearing noise," said Mulch. "Doesn’t sound very watertight."

No one argued. They knew what he meant.

* * *

On the other side of the divider, Artemis was having a few misgivings of his own. He had just noticed the mercenaries’ name for the ship, which was painted on the inside of the ocean door in what was supposed to look like blood but could not be or it would have long since washed off.

Probably some rubber-based solution, thought Artemis, but the base of the mercenaries’ paint was not what bothered him—it was the name itself, which was Plunderer, in Gnommish of course. The verb plunder was pronounced ffurfor, and the er suffix that changes the verb to a noun has, in Gnommish, the sound fer, which would imply that one is derived from the other. Grammar lesson aside, the pronunciation of the word plunderer was more or less fourfourfour.

Four four four, thought Artemis, pale inside his helmet.

Death death death.

At which point the hull door slid up with more ball-bearing noises, and the ocean sucked him into its deep dark depths.

Take a moment, thought Artemis as the suit’s outer skin vibrated and activated the glow orbs at his temples, fingertips, and knees. Don’t count, don’t organize, just do as Butler advized and focus.

He did not feel underwater, though he knew he was. His body did not experience the expected resistance from the ocean, there was no dulling of the motor skills, and he felt as though he could move with the same fluency as he always did, though Butler would argue whether his movements were ever fluid.

Which would have been great, had not the giant squid, whose territory he had just invaded, wrapped this glowing intruder in ten fat limbs and whisked him off toward his lair.

Ah, the mythical giant squid. Genus Architeuthis, thought Artemis, strangely calm now that he was faced with a catastrophe worthy of all the worrying he’d been doing. Not so mythical anymore.





CHAPTER 9

FORBIDDEN LOVE

TURNBALL Root had met Leonor Carsby on the remote Hawaiian island of Lehua in the summer of 1938. Leonor was there because she had crash-landed her Lockheed Electra into the northern slope of the island’s volcanic ridge and freewheeled into the oddly shaped natural canal known as The Keyhole, which cut through the island. Turnball had been there because he’d maintained a winter residence on the otherwise uninhabited island, where he liked to drink wine and listen to jazz recordings while he planned his next heist.

They were an unlikely couple, but their first meeting took place in the kind of extreme circumstances that often cause hearts to beat faster and believe themselves in love.

Leonor Carsby was a human Manhattan heiress, but also a founding member of the Ninety-Nines, an organization of women in aviation first presided over by Amelia Earhart. When Earhart was lost in the Pacific, Leonor Carsby vowed that she herself would complete the journey that her friend and hero Amelia had begun.

In April 1938 she took off from California with a navigator and extra-large fuel tanks. Six weeks later, Leonor Carsby arrived in The Keyhole with neither, having lost both to Lehua’s cruel crescent-shaped ridge. It was a miracle she herself survived, improbably protected only by the Lockheed’s bubble cockpit.

On his daily patrol, Unix had come across the heiress spread-eagled on a flat rock at the water’s edge. She was not in good shape: dehydrated, one leg badly broken, delirious, and on the edge of death.

The sprite called it in, expecting to be given the execution order, but something about the human woman’s face on his screen interested Turnball. He instructed Unix not to do anything, but to wait for his arrival.

Turnball took the trouble to shave, draw his hair back into a ponytail, and put on a fresh ruffled shirt before taking the lift from the subterranean cave to the surface. There he found Unix squatting over the most gorgeous creature he had ever seen. Even twisted unnaturally and covered with blood and bruises, it was clear to Turnball that she was an exquisite beauty.

As he stood over Leonor, with the sun behind him, casting long shadows across his face, the aviatrix opened her eyes, took Turnball in, and said two words: "My God." And then she was lost to delirium once more.

Turnball was intrigued. He felt a thaw around a heart, which had been frozen for decades. Who was this woman who had fallen from the skies?

"Bring her inside," he told Unix. "Use whatever magic we have to make her well."

Unix did as he was told without comment, as was his way. Many other lieutenants might have questioned the wisdom of using the gang’s dwindling supply of magic on a human. There was a newbie in the group who still had half a tank in him. When that was gone, who knew how long it would be before they had power again?

But Unix did not complain, and neither did the others, as they were all aware that Turnball Root did not handle moaning well, and moaners tended to find themselves stranded somewhere uncomfortable, waiting for something extremely painful to happen to them.

So Leonor Carsby was taken into the subterranean cave and nursed back to health. Turnball did not involve himself too much during the early stages, preferring to show up when Leonor was on the point of waking up so he could pretend he had been there the whole time. Initially, Leonor did nothing but heal and sleep, but after some weeks she began to speak, hesitantly at first, but then questions tumbled out of her so quickly that Turnball could hardly keep up.

"Who are you?"

"What are you?"

"How did you find me?"

"Is Pierre, my navigator, alive?"

"When will I be fit to travel?"

Generally, Turnball handled questions about as well as he handled moaning, but from Leonor Carsby, every question caused him to smile indulgently and answer in detail.

Why is this? he wondered. Why do I tolerate this human instead of simply tossing her to the sharks in the normal fashion? I am spending time and magic on her in extravagant amounts.

Turnball began thinking about Leonor’s face when he wasn’t looking at it. Water chimes reminded him of her laugh. Sometimes he was sure he could hear her call to him, though he was on the far side of the island.

Grow up, you fool, he told himself. Yours is not the heart of a romantic.

But the heart cannot lie, and Turnball Root found himself in love with Leonor Carsby. He canceled two raids on federal bullion sites to be by her side, and moved his office to her room so he could work while she slept.

And, for her part, Leonor loved him too. She knew he was not human, but still she loved him. He told her about everything but the violence. Turnball styled himself as a revolutionary on the run from an unjust state, and she believed it. Why wouldn’t she? He was the dashing hero who had saved her, and Turnball made sure none of his cronies shattered this illusion.

When Leonor was well enough, Turnball took her to Mount Everest in his shuttle, and she cried tears of amazement. As they hovered there, shrouded by the cold white mist, Turnball asked the question he had been wanting to ask for two months.

"That first moment, my dear, when your eyes met mine, you said, ‘My God.’ Why did you say that?"

Leonor dried her eyes. "I was half dead, Turnball. You’ll laugh and think me silly."

Root took her hand. "I could never think that. Never."

"Very well. I shall tell you. I said those words, Turnball, because I thought I had died and you were a fierce, handsome angel come to take me to heaven."

Turnball did not laugh, and he did not think it was silly. He knew at that moment that this gorgeous petite woman was the love of his life and he had to have her.

So when Leonor began talking of her return to New York, and how Turnball would be the sensation of the city, he pricked the ball of his thumb with a quill, drew a thrall rune with the blood, and prepared himself a supper of mandrake and rice wine.

Venice, Italy; Now

The giant amorphobot bore Turnball Root to his beloved, who waited for him at the basement dock to their house in Venice. The house stood four stories high and had been commissioned by Turnball himself in 1798 and built from the finest reconstituted Italian marble mixed with fairy polymers, which would absorb the gradual shift of the city without cracking. It took several hours to make the journey, during which time the amorphobot kept Turnball and his men alive by periodically surfacing to replenish its cells with oxygen and spiking their arms with saline drips for nourishment. As they traveled, Turnball logged on to the computer in the amor-phobot’s belly to ensure that all was ready for the next stage of his plan.

Turnball found that he was very comfortable working in this sheltered environment with the world flashing by. He was insulated yet in control.

Safe.

From the corner of his eye, through the bleary mask of gel, Turnball was aware that Bobb Ragby and Ching Mayle now regarded him with something approaching worship, following the spectacular nature of their escape. Worship. He liked that.

As they approached the Italian coast, Turnball felt his calm smugness desert him, as a nervous serpent crawled into his stomach.

Leonor. How I have missed you.

Since Turnball had acquired a computer, there had been barely a day when they had not written to each other, but Leonor refused to participate in video calls, and of course Turnball knew why.

You will always be beautiful to me, my darling.

The amorphobot thrummed the length of Venice’s Grand Canal, skirting the mounds of rubbish and corpses of murdered princes, until it stopped in front of the only subaquatic gate with an omni-sensor. The bot winked at the sensor, and the sensor winked back, and now that everyone was all pally, the gate opened without blasting them with the recessed Neutrino lances on its pillars.

Turnball winked at his crew. "Thank goodness for that, eh? Sometimes that gate is a little unfriendly." It was difficult to talk with the slow surge of gel over one’s teeth, but Turnball felt the comment was worth it. Leonor would like that one.

Turnball’s crew did not answer; their accomodation inside the gel bot was a little more cramped than their captain’s. They were squished together like salted slugs in a cone.

The bot elongated itself to flow easily down the narrow channel to Turnball’s underground dock. Strip lights glowed in the gloom, drawing them underneath the house. Deeper and deeper they went, until at last the bot expelled Turnball gently onto a sloping slipway. He straightened his coat, tightened his ponytail, and walked slowly along the ramp toward the slight figure waiting in the shadows.

"Put the others to sleep," he told the bot. "I need to talk to my wife."

A plasma charge crackled through the bot, knocking out the fairies inside. Unix barely had time to roll his eyes before passing out.

Turnball took a halting step, nervous as a teenage elf about to take his first moon flight.

"Leonor? Darling. I have come home to you. Come and kiss me."

His wife hobbled forward from the blackness, leaning heavily on an ivory-topped cane. Her fingers were gnarled, with glowing rheumatoid knuckles, her body was angular and unnatural, with sharp bones stretching the heavy lace of her skirt. One eye drooped, and the other was closed completely, and the lines on her face were scored deep by time and black with shadows.

"Turnball. As handsome as ever. It is so wonderful to see you free." Leonor’s voice was a mere rasp, labored and painful.

"Now that you are home," she said, haltingly, "I can allow myself to die."

Turnball’s heart lurched. He had palpitations, and a red band of heat tightened about his forehead. Everything he had ever done suddenly seemed all for nothing.

"You cannot die," he said furiously, rubbing the pad of his thumb, heating the rune. "I love you, I need you."

Leonor’s eyelids fluttered. "I cannot die," she repeated.

"But why not, Turnball? I am too old for life. Only my longing to see you again has kept me alive, but my time has passed. I regret nothing, except that I never flew again. I wanted to, but I didn’t. . . . Why was that?"

My hold is weakening. The old spell has died.

"You chose a life with me, my darling," he said, rushing the last steps to her side. "But now that I have found the secret to eternal youth, you can be young again, and soon you will fly wherever you want to go."

Turnball felt the tiniest pressure as her fragile hand squeezed his fingers. "I would like that, my dear."

"Of course you would," said Turnball, steering his wife to the basement elevator. And now you should rest. I have a lot to organize before we leave."

Leonor allowed herself to be led, feeling, as always, powerless to resist her charismatic husband.

"That’s my Turnball. Always coming to my rescue. One of these days I will rescue you."

"You do rescue me," said Turnball sincerely. "Every day."

A barb of guilt pricked his heart, as he knew he could never allow Leonor to fly again. For if she could fly, then she might fly away.

Turnball was shocked and frightened by how feeble Leonor had become. Somehow, the simple act of marrying a fairy had slowed down her aging process, but now it seemed that he could delay her decline no longer. Turnball took his fear for his wife, turned it into rage, and pointed it at his crew.

"We have a historic opportunity here," he shouted at the small group, who were assembled in the second-story library, "to strike a blow at the heart of our ancient enemy and also secure a supply of magic that will never run dry. If one of you useless jail rats fails in his task, there will be nowhere on this earth you can hide from me. I will hunt you down and peel the skin from your head. Do you understand?"

They understood. Historically, Turnball’s threats were usually vague and stylish—when he got down to specifics, then the captain was close to the edge.

"Good. Good." Turnball took a breath. "Is everything ready, Quartermaster?"

Quartermaster Ark Sool stepped forward. Sool was an unusually tall gnome who had, until quite recently, been an internal affairs officer for the LEP. Having been demoted to private following an investigation into the ethics of his own methods, Sool had cashed in whatever years he had and decided that he would use the accumulated knowledge of decades of criminal investigation to make himself some of the gold that gnomes were almost hypnotically attracted to. He’d advertised his services at The Sozzled Parrot and had soon been picked up by Turnball, anonymously at first, but now they were meeting face-to-face.

"Everything is ready, Captain," he said, tones clipped, back straight. "The shuttle we acquired from the LEP pound has been fitted out as an Atlantis ambulance. And I managed to trim the budget quite a bit and took the liberty of ordering a few new dress suits for you."

"Excellent work, Quartermaster," said Turnball. "Your share has just gone up three percent. Initiative pays. Never forget that."

He rubbed his hands. "How soon can we leave?"

"As soon as you give the word, Captain. The ambulance is on the jetty and ready for push off."

"The laser?"

"Modified as requested. Small enough to fit in your pocket."

"I find myself liking you quite a bit, Sool. Keep it up and soon you will be a full partner."

Sool bowed slightly. "Thank you, sir."

"Any casualties while you were doing the shopping?"

"Not on our side, sir," said Sool.

"And who cares about the other side, eh?"

Turnball liked the idea of blood being spilled. It made the entire exercise seem worthwhile.

"Now, we all know I am a selfish fairy—that’s what’s kept us alive and prospering, apart from our recent stint at the Council’s pleasure. If I get what I want, then we all flourish. And what I want is a source of magic strong enough to make my wife young again. And if that source of magic can also make your dreams come true, so much the better. Until recently, there was no everlasting source, but now the demons have returned from Limbo, bringing a mighty warlock with them. A young demon who has taken the unusual name of No1."

"A smarmy little upstart," said Sool. "Won’t salute or wear a uniform."

"I’m taking one percent of your share back for interrupting," said Turnball gently. "Do it again and I’ll take an arm."

Sool opened his mouth to apologize, but on consideration decided that another little bow would suffice.

"You’re new. You’ll learn. And if you don’t, at least Mr. Ragby will have a nice meal. He loves limbs."

Ragby made the point by gnashing his large teeth.

"So, to continue uninterrupted, there is now a demon warlock in Haven. If we can take him, then he shields us forever and he brings my Leonor back to me. Questions?"

Bobb Ragby raised a finger.

"Yes, Mr. Ragby?"

"Won’t this No1 be hard to get to?"

"Ah, excellent question, Mr. Ragby. Not quite as stupid as you appear, after all. And you are right. Generally, a person of this importance would be hidden away like the last stink worm at a dwarf sludge pool party, but in the event of a disaster at sea, where the medical staff are stretched to their limits, such a powerful warlock will be pressed into service by the medical warlocks. So we will find him in the aquanaut Nostremius, the floating hospital."

A broad smile spread across Ragby’s face. "And we have a fake ambulance."

"We do indeed, Bobb. You put things together quickly."

Ching had a question too. "A person like that, with all this power, surely the LEP are going to come after a person like that?"

This was exactly the question Turnball wanted asked. He was delighted by how this presentation was going. "Let me answer your question with one of my own, just to get your mind working, because I have faith that you’re not just a stupid goblin. Do you know why I had the space probe crash into the prison shuttle?"

Ching’s reptilian face wrinkled in concentration, and he absently licked his eyeballs as he thought. "I think you done that so the Leppers would assume we were dead."

"Correct, Mr. Mayle. I orchestrated a huge catastrophe so everyone would believe we had been killed." Turnball shrugged. "I don’t feel bad about that. We are at war with the Leppers, as you call them. If you take sides in a war, then you can expect to be a target. I might feel a little bad about the next catastrophe. I’m a little sentimental about hospitals: I was born in one."

Bobb raised the same finger again. "Uh, Captain, was that a joke?"

Turnball beamed a charming smile. "Why, yes it was, Mr. Ragby."

Bobb Ragby started to laugh.

The Atlantis Trench; Now

Artemis Fowl felt the tentacles of the giant squid tighten around him. Saucer-sized spherical suckers latched on to his pressure suit, slobbering on the surface, searching for purchase. Each cup was lined with rings of razor-sharp chitin teeth, which gnashed viciously on Artemis’s protected limbs and torso.

Eight arms, if I remember correctly, thought Artemis. Which is two fours. Die! Die!

Artemis almost giggled. Even in the death grip of the biggest squid ever to be seen by a man, he was persisting with his compulsive behavior.

It won’t be long now before I am counting my words again.

When the squid’s biting suckers could not gain access to the tender meat inside, it held Artemis away from the giant mantle.

The next stage of the squid’s assault was to batter Artemis with one of its two longer tentacles, which it swung like a mace. Artemis felt the jarring blow, but his suit did not rupture.

"One two three four five," shouted Artemis defiantly. "Wear the suit and stay alive."

Number poetry. Back to square one.

Three times more, the squid struck and then it drew Artemis close in circling bands of fat tentacle and took his entire head inside its gnashing beak. The noise was exactly what Artemis had always imagined it would sound like if a giant squid tried to crack his sea helmet.

If I get out of this, I will start thinking about girls like a normal fifteen-year-old.

After several heart-stopping minutes, the squid apparently gave up and dashed Artemis down in a nest of bones and sea junk that it had assembled on a high shelf at the side of an underwater cliff.

Artemis lay on his back and watched as the creature expanded its mantle cavity, filled it with hundreds of gallons of seawater, then contracted the mantle, shooting itself into the near pitch black of deep water.

Artemis felt that in the circumstances, a slang word was justified.

"Wow," he breathed. "Of all the things that have almost killed me, that was the most fearsome."

After several minutes, Artemis’s heart rate slowed enough to extinguish the flashing heart readout on his suit, and he felt that he could move without throwing up.

"I’ve moved position," he said into his helmet, in case Foaly’s phone, which was stuck into the helmet over his forehead, was still actually functional. "I intend to try and take some bearings so you can come and rescue me."

"Moved position?" said Foaly’s voice, which was transmitted faintly by vibration through the helmet’s polymer, so that it seemed to come from everywhere. "That’s an understatement. We’re going to try to catch up."

"Look for landmarks," said another voice, Butler. "We can use them to triangulate with Foaly’s phone and pinpoint your position."

This was a hopeful plan at best, but Artemis felt that it was better to have something to do other than just wait for his air to run out.

"Actually, how much air do I have?"

Foaly, of course, was the one to answer that technical question. "The suit has functioning gills that draw oxygen from the ocean, so it will keep breathing long after you’re dead, so to speak. Not that you’re going to die."

Artemis turned over and raised himself onto all fours. Any difficulty he experienced was due to his body being in shock from the cephalopod attack, and not the pressure suit, which was functioning perfectly and which would later go on to win an industry award for its performance that day.

Take five steps, Artemis urged himself. Just five. Whatever you do, don’t stop at . . . one less than five.

Artemis took five shuffling steps, feeling his way along the ledge, carefully avoiding shuffling off into the abyss. He could probably survive the drop, but he had no desire to have to climb back up again.

"I’m on a long flat ledge, on the lip of the trench," he said softly, anxious not to disturb any vibration-sensitive creatures—sharks, for example.

He realized that the squid had dropped him into some kind of nest. Perhaps the creature did not actually sleep here, but it seemed to feed in the spot and collect things that interested it. There were several skeletons, including the gigantic ribbed remains of a sperm whale, which Artemis first mistook for a shipwreck. There were small boats, huge brass propellers, great chunks of gleaming quartz, phosphorescent rocks, various crates, and even a mangled orange deep-sea submarine with grinning skeletons inside.

Artemis moved quickly away from the craft, even though his intellect assured him that the skeletons could not harm him.

Pardon me if I don’t completely trust my intellect these days.

He noticed that in all this rubble there did not appear to be any fairy-made articles, even with Atlantis just over the crest.

Then Artemis saw that he was mistaken. There was, no more than thirty feet from him, a small, slick, metallic computer cube with unmistakable fairy markings which seemed to float just above the surface of the ledge.

No, wait, not floating. Suspended in gel.

Artemis poked the gel gingerly, and when there was no reaction apart from a gentle fizzling spark, he plunged his sheathed hand into the gel up to the shoulder, grasping the cube by a corner. With the aid of the suit’s servo motors, he easily pulled it free.

Wreckage from the probe, perhaps, he thought, then said aloud, "I have something. It could be pertinent. Are you seeing this, Foaly?"

There was no reply.

I need to get back to the ship, or into the crash crater. Somewhere away from the giant squid, which wants to nibble my flesh and suck my marrow.

Artemis immediately regretted thinking the suck-my-marrow bit, as it was far too graphic, and now he felt like throwing up again.

I don’t even know which way to go, he realized. This entire venture was ill-advised. What were the chances I would find a clue at the bottom of the ocean?

An ironic statement, as it would turn out, because he held a vital clue in his hands.

Artemis swung his head this way and that, to see if whatever was caught in the beams of his helmet could spark off an idea. Nothing. Just an almost transparent fish propelling its bloated body with stubby fins, and filtering plankton through its circular nostrils.

I need something to happen, thought Artemis a little desperately. The idea had occurred to him that he was lost alone underneath six miles of crushing ocean with not much of an idea of what to do next. Artemis had always performed well under pressure, but that was usually the intellectual pressure a person might experience at the end of a taxing chess match, not the kind of pressure that could splinter a person’s bones and squeeze every bubble of air from their lungs. Actual water pressure.

As it turned out, something did happen: the squid came back, and it bore in the grip of its larger tentacles what appeared to be the space probe’s nose cone.

I wonder what he wants that for? wondered Artemis. It’s almost as if he’s actually manipulating a tool.

But to what end? What nut would a giant squid wish to crack?

"Me," Artemis blurted. "I’m the nut."

Artemis could have sworn the squid winked at him before bringing the five-ton chunk of spacecraft swinging down toward the morsel of meat in its blue shell.

"I’m the nut!" Artemis shouted again, a little hysterically, it must be said. He backpedaled along the ledge, the suit’s motors lending him a little speed. Just enough feet per second to feel the force of the swing, but not the metal itself. The probe’s prow cut through the rock like a cleaver through soft meat and carved a V-shaped trench that ran between the soles of Artemis’s feet.

So much for being a genius, thought Artemis bitterly. One grand gesture and I’m fish food.

The squid yanked its weapon free from the rock and raised it high, pumping its mantle cavity full of water for the next effort. Artemis’s back was literally against the wall. He had nowhere to go, and made an easy target.

"Butler!" called Artemis, purely out of habit. He had no real expectation that his bodyguard could miraculously materialize at his side, and even if he did, it would just be to die there.

The squid closed one huge eye, taking careful aim.

These things are smarter than scientists think, thought Artemis. I do wish I had been able to write a paper.

The prow came hammering down, compressing water then pushing it aside. Metal filled Artemis’s vision, and it occurred to him that this was the second time this particular prow had almost crushed him.

Except this time it’s not almost.

But it was to be almost. An orange circle pulsed in Artemis’s helmet readout, and he prayed that it was a sign that an electromagnetic connection had been established between his suit and the ship.

It was. Artemis felt a gentle tug, then a fierce one that yanked him off the ledge straight up toward the hovering mercenary craft. In the light of his suit beams he could see a magnetic plate in the ship’s belly. Underneath him the squid abandoned its improvised mallet and bunched itself for pursuit.

I’ll probably slow down before I hit that plate, Artemis thought hopefully.

He didn’t, but the impact hurt a lot less than a blow from an armed giant squid.

Generally, the diver would be taken inside immediately, but in this case Holly decided that it would be best to leave Artemis where he was, and put a little distance between them and the squid, which Artemis would later agree was the correct decision even though at the time he was screaming. Artemis craned his head around to see the massive dome of the squid’s head jetting after him, tentacles behind rippling like skipping ropes—skipping ropes with razor-lined suckers and enough power to crush an armored vehicle, not to mention the ability to manipulate tools.

"Holly!" he shouted. "If you can hear me, go faster!"

Apparently she could hear him.

Holly took the ship deep into the impact crater, and when she was absolutely sure the squid was off their scopes, she flipped the magnetic plate, and Artemis was dumped into the air lock, still clutching the fairy box to his chest.

"Hey, look," said Mulch, once the air lock had drained. "It’s the nut." He ran in small circles around the bay, squealing, "I’m the nut. I’m the nut." The dwarf stopped for a laugh. "He cracks me up, really."

Butler hurried to Artemis’s side. "Cut him some slack, Diggums. He just tangled with a giant squid."

Mulch was not impressed. "I once ate one of those things. A big one, not a minnow like that fellow."

Butler helped Artemis with the helmet. "Anything broken? Can you move your fingers and toes? What is the capital of Pakistan?"

Artemis coughed and stretched his neck. "Nothing broken. Digits all mobile, and the capital of Pakistan is Islamabad, which is noteworthy for having been built to be the capital."

"Okay, Artemis," said Butler. "You’re fine. I won’t ask you to count to five."

"I would rather count in fives, if you don’t mind. Foaly, congratulations on building such a sturdy phone with an excellent tracking program."

Holly hit the water flaps to slow the ship’s forward motion. "Did you find anything?"

Artemis held out the hardware cube. "Wreckage from the probe. This was covered in some kind of gel. Interesting texture, loaded with crystals. Something of yours, Foaly?"

The centaur clopped over and took the small metal box. "It’s the heart from an amorphobot," he said fondly. "These little guys were the perfect foragers. They could absorb anything, including each other."

"Maybe they absorbed this Turnball guy and his buddies," said Juliet, half joking.

Artemis was about to explain in patronizingly simple terms exactly why this wasn’t possible, when it occurred to him that it was indeed possible—not only that, it was probable.

"They weren’t programmed to act as rescue vehicles," said Foaly.

Holly scowled. "If you tell me one more time that those amorphobots weren’t programmed to do something, then I will have to shave your hindquarters while you sleep."

Artemis crawled to the steel bench. "Are you saying that you people knew about these amorphobots all the time?"

"Of course we did. They attacked us in Iceland. Remember?"

"No. I was unconscious."

"That’s right. Seems like ages ago."

"So I endured trial by squid for nothing?"

"Oh no. Not for nothing. It would have taken me minutes to make the connection, and even then it would only have been a theory." Foaly typed a code into his phone, releasing it from the pressure suit’s helmet. "Whereas now we can check the programming."

Foaly hooked his phone to the bot’s brain and was delighted to see its readout light up. He ran a few checks and was easily able to pinpoint the shadow program. "This is a little puzzling. The bot was sent new mission parameters by the control orb. Charmingly enough, it’s actually telling its gel to kill us all right now. That’s why we never detected any outside interference—there was none. It’s a simple little shadow program, a few lines of code, that’s all. Simple to kill." He did so with a few taps of the keyboard.

"Where is this control orb?" asked Artemis.

"It’s in my lab, in Haven."

"Could it have been tampered with?"

Foaly didn’t have to think about this for long. "Impossible, and I’m not just being typical me and denying that my equipment is responsible. I check that thing most days. I ran a systems check yesterday, and there was nothing out of the ordinary in the orb’s history. Whoever set this up has been feeding the probe instructions for weeks, if not months."

Artemis closed his eyes to blot out the shining fours that had appeared in his vision, floating around the craft’s interior, hissing malignantly.

I manage to survive a giant squid attack, and now I’m worried about hissing fours. Great.

"I need everyone to sit in a line, on the opposite bench, small to tall."

"That’s the Atlantis Complex talking, Mud Boy," said Holly. "Fight it."

Artemis pressed the heels of his hands into his eye sockets. "Please, Holly. For me."

Mulch was delighted with this game. "Should we hold hands, or chant? How about: five keeps me alive, four makes my bottom sore?"

"Number poetry?" said Artemis skeptically. "That’s ridiculous. Please, sit where I ask."

They did, reluctantly and grumbling, Foaly and Mulch arguing for a moment over who was smaller. There was no argument over who was tallest. Butler sat hunched at the end, chin almost between his knees. Beside him sat Juliet, then Foaly, then Mulch, and finally Holly, who had set the ship on neutral.

Five, thought Artemis. Five friends to keep me alive.

He sat, still clad in the pressure exoskeleton suit, watching his friends and taking strength, letting his ideas build.

Finally he said, "Foaly, there must have been a second orb."

Foaly nodded. "There was. We always grow a backup. In this case we used the clone, because the original was damaged. Only minor damage, true, but you can’t take chances with space travel. The first was sent off to be incinerated."

"Where?"

"Atlantis. Koboi Labs got the contract. This was obviously before we realized how deranged Opal is."

"So, if we accept that Turnball Root got hold of the second orb and had it repaired by Vishby, or whoever else worked for him, then would the probe obey commands from that orb?"

"Of course. No questions asked. They could be sent by any computer with a satellite link."

Butler raised a finger. "Can I say something?"

"Of course, old friend."

"Foaly. Your security sucks. When are you guys going to learn? A few years ago the goblins built a shuttle, and now you have convicts running your space program."

Foaly stamped a hoof. "Hey, pal, less of the judgmental attitude. We’ve stayed hidden for thousands of years. That’s how good our security is."

"Five ten fifteen twenty," shouted Artemis. "Please. We need to work quickly."

"Can we tease you about this later?" said Mulch. "I have some great material."

"Later," said Artemis. "For now, we need to work out where Turnball is going and what his final objective is."

When there was no argument, he continued. "If we assume that Turnball used his orb to control the probe, and used these amorphobots to carry him away, can we track the amorphobots?"

Foaly’s head movement was somewhere between a nod and a shake. "Possibly. But not for long."

Artemis understood. "The gel dissipates in salt water."

"That’s right. The friction between the water and the bots wears down the gel, but as soon as it separates from the brain, it begins to dissolve. No charge, no cohesion. I’d say with a melon-sized bubble, you might get a few hours."

"It’s already been a few hours. How much longer do we have?"

"It may already be too late. If I was allowed out of my school desk, I might be able to tell you."

"Of course, please."

Foaly swung his arms forward, lifting himself from his awkward seated position, and clopped into the cockpit, where he quickly entered the gel’s chemical makeup into the gyro’s rudimentary computer and dropped a filter over the portholes.

"Luckily for us, the mercenaries decided to leave the scanners intact. Everyone pick a window. I’ve run a scan for a specific radiation, and the gel trail should show up as a luminous green. Shout if you see something."

They all took a porthole, except Holly, who sat in the pilot’s chair, ready to take off in whichever direction the trail led.

"I see it!" said Mulch. "No, wait. It’s a really angry squid looking for his little nut. Sorry. I know that was inappropriate, but I’m hungry."

"There," called Juliet. "I see something, portside."

Artemis switched to her porthole. Winding from the depths of the crater was a wispy stream of shining bubbles that disappeared as they watched it, the lower bubbles separating into smaller blobs, then toward the end of the trail, some were disappearing altogether.

"Quickly, Holly," said Artemis urgently. "Follow those bubbles."

Holly opened the throttle. "Now there’s an order I never thought I’d hear from you," she said.

They sped after the bubble trail in the mercenaries’ gyro, though Foaly did argue that technically they were not bubbles but globules, for which information he received a punch on the shoulder from Juliet.

"Hey, don’t punch me," protested the centaur.

"Technically, that was a rap, not a punch," corrected Juliet. "Now this . . . this is a punch."

The trail grew fainter before their eyes, and Holly quickly programmed in a projected course whenever the globules changed direction, just in case they disappeared altogether.

Artemis sat in the copilot’s chair with a hand over one eye and his second hand in front of his face.

"The thumb is generally acknowledged to be a finger," he told Holly. "In which case we’re safe, because that makes five fingers. But some experts argue that the thumb is completely different and is one of the things that sets us apart from the animals, and in that case we only have four fingers on each hands. And that’s bad."

He’s getting worse, thought Holly anxiously.

Butler was stumped. If someone were threatening Artemis, the correct protective action was usually pretty obvious: Clobber the bad guy and confiscate his weapon. But now the bad guy was Artemis’s own mind, and it was turning him against everyone, including Butler.

How can I trust any order Artemis gives me? the bodyguard wondered. It could simply be a ruse to get me out of the way. Just like Mexico.

He squatted beside Artemis. "You do have faith in me now, don’t you, Artemis?"

Artemis tried to meet his eyes but couldn’t manage it. "I’m trying, old friend. I want to, but I know that soon I won’t have the strength. I need help, and soon."

They both knew what Artemis wasn’t saying: I need help before I go out of my mind entirely.

They followed the gel trail eastward through the Atlantic and around the tip of Gibraltar into the Med. In the early afternoon the trail died suddenly. The last green bubble popped, and suddenly they were fifty feet underwater, two miles outside the Golfo di Venezia with nothing but yachts and gondolas in the gyro’s scopes.

"It has to be Venice," said Holly, bringing the ship to periscope depth, taking the opportunity to fill the air tanks and equalize. "It’s right in front of us."

"Venice is a big city," said Butler. "And not an easy place to search. How are we going to find these guys?"

The amorphobot brain in Foaly’s hand suddenly beeped as it established a link with its brethren. "I don’t think that’s going to be a problem. They’re close. Very close. Very, very close."

Artemis was not happy with his melodramatic statement. "Very, very close? Really, Foaly? You’re a scientist. How close, exactly?"

Foaly pointed to the gyro’s hatch. "That close."

The next minute or two were frantic and seemed to have an entire day’s worth of happenings compressed into a few moments. To Artemis and Foaly, the whole thing was just flashes of color and blurred movement. Butler, Holly, and Juliet saw a little more, being trained soldiers. Butler even managed to get off the bench, which did him absolutely no good whatsoever.

The gyro’s hatch made a sound like a giant plastic bottle being stepped on by a giant foot, then simply disappeared. Rather, it appeared to disappear. It was actually torn backward with great force then hurled into the sky. The hatch eventually lodged in the shaft of the bell tower of San Marco Piazza, which caused quite a bit of consternation in the city, especially for the painter whose rope was severed by the spinning hatch, and who plummeted a hundred feet to land on his brother’s back. The brothers were already fighting, and this didn’t make things any better.

Back in the gyro, water immediately began flooding the ship’s interior, but most of the available space was filled by the rolling forms of six amorphobots, which flowed into the bay, chittering as they selected their targets. It was all over in less than a second. The bots pounced on their targets, quickly engulfing them in turgid gel, and spirited them into the azure blue of the Mediterranean.

As they were whisked toward the murky form of a fairy ship in the depths, each prisoner had his or her own thoughts about what had happened.

Artemis was stunned by how much this abduction reminded him of his time spent battling through the mind-screen in his own brain.

Holly wondered if her weapon would work inside the gunk, or if it had been disabled yet again.

Foaly couldn’t help feeling a little fondness for the amorphobot that held him prisoner; after all, he had grown it in a lab beaker.

Juliet tried to keep Butler in sight. So long as she could see her brother, she felt reasonably safe.

Butler thrashed for a moment, but quickly realized that his efforts were futile, and so drew himself in like a newborn, conserving his energy for one explosive movement.

Mulch was also considering an explosive movement. Maybe he couldn’t escape, but he could certainly make this blobby thing regret picking him up. The dwarf pulled his knees slowly to his chest and allowed the gas in his tubes to collect into long bubbles. Eventually he would have enough force to blast through, or else he would be left floating in what would look like the world’s largest lava lamp.

* * *

Turnball Root was having a reasonably good time. He would have been having a wonderful time but for the fact that his darling Leonor was not in the condition he would like her to be, and he was worried that if he was able to restore Leonor’s faculties, she would quickly tumble to the fact that he was not quite the principled revolutionary he had always pretended to be, and he would lose her love. Leonor had a strong sense of morality, and she would definitely kick up a fuss at the idea of him imprisoning a demon warlock to keep her forever young. Turnball glanced at the thrall rune on his thumb. The intricate set of spirals and characters that had kept Leonor on the hook, but the power of which was weakening all the time. Would she have left him without it? Maybe. Probably.

Turnball was possibly the world’s foremost expert on runes. They suited his situation, as they only required a tiny spark of magic to kick-start them, and thereafter operated on the power of the symbols themselves. Different people reacted differently to rune control. Some could be controled for decades while others would reject the black magic and go instantly insane. Leonor had been the ideal thrall because a large part of her wanted to believe what Turnball told her.

With his modified laser, Turnball could enslave anyone he wished, for as long as he wished, no matter how they felt about him, and without the need for a single spark of magic.

Like these new prisoners, for example. A veritable treasure chest of talents at his disposal. One never knew when a teenage mastermind would come in handy, or a technical centaur, especially when it was well known that the little demon trusted them both. With those two and the warlock, he could start his own principality if he chose to.

Yes, I am having a reasonably good time, thought Turnball. But soon I will be having an excellent time. Just one more set of people to kill. Maybe two.

The amorphobots had entered the ambulance through the air lock and morphed into one in the ambulance’s only cell. Actually, the bot holding Mulch Diggums was excluded from the morph, as the other bots could not identify the chemical spectrum of the gas bubbles inside the dwarf’s body, and did not frankly like the look of Mulch anyway, and so, though it tried to meld with the others, the bot was repulsed and wobbled lonely in the corner.

Turnball Root descended the spiral staircase from the bridge and literally swaggered into the cell to gloat.

"Look here," he said to Unix, who stood at his shoulder, grim as ever. "The finest fairy and human minds all gathered together in one cell."

They hung before him suspended in smart gel, unable to do much besides take shallow breaths and move like sleepy swimmers.

"Don’t even bother making the effort to call for help or shoot your way out," Turnball continued. "I am jamming your phones and weapons." He leaned close to the bot’s shimmering surface. "Here’s one of Julius’s little pups. Didn’t we shoot her already, Unix?"

A leery smile tightened the sprite’s jaw, though it did not make him seem like a nicer person.

"And the great Foaly. Savior of the People. Not anymore, my little pony. Soon you will be my thrall, and delighted to be so." Turnball wiggled his thumbs at the captives, and they could see the red runes painted there.

"And what have we here?" Turnball stopped in front of the Butlers. "Crazy Bear and the Jade Princess. I missed you once before, but it won’t happen a second time."

"What about me?" Mulch managed to say, and the bot translated the vibrations of his larynx into sound.

"What about you?"

"Don’t I get a description? I’m dangerous too."

Turnball laughed, but softly so the noise would not awaken Leonor, who slept in the berth upstairs. "I like you, dwarf. You have spirit, but nonetheless I shall kill you, as you are of no use to me, unless you fancy a position as jester. A fat, smelly jester. Obviously I am assuming that you smell bad. You certainly look as though you might."

Turnball moved on to Artemis. "And, of course, Artemis Fowl. Ex-criminal mastermind and current psychotic. How is the Complex going, Artemis? I bet you have a bad number. What is it, five? Four?" Artemis must have flinched because Turnball knew he had guessed correctly. "Four, then. And how do I know you suffer from Atlantis? You should ask your friend Foaly. He’s the one who supplies me with pictures."

Artemis was not at all surprised to find that some of his paranoia was actually justified.

Turnball paced along the line like a general delivering a prebattle pep talk. "I am delighted that you are all here, genuinely delighted. Because you can be useful to me. You see, my wife is very old, and to save her life and bring her youth back, I need a very powerful magician."

Artemis’s eyes widened. He got it straight away. All of this to lure No1 out of Haven.

"Your friend No1 will be helping out with the injured on the Nostremius, and we were going to go in there, masquerading as patients, and bring him out with my super-duper modified lasers, but there was always going to be the niggly problem of the little fellow perhaps getting a magical bolt off before I enthralled him. But now, Holly Short, one of his best friends in the whole world, is going to fetch him for me."

Turnball turned to Unix. "Tell the bot to spit out Captain Short."

Unix consulted a computer rendering of the bot and its contents on a wall screen. With a flick of his finger, he dragged Holly from the gel. Almost instantaneously, the bot did the same. Holly felt as though she were being vomited from the belly of a beast onto the cold metal floor. She lay there gasping as her lungs accustomed themselves to breathing pure air once more. She opened her eyes to see a grinning Turnball looming over her.

"I’m remembering more and more about you as time goes by," he said, and kicked her hard in the ribs with one black boot. "And I remember that you put me in prison. But never mind, eh. Now you can make up for it by doing me a good turn."

Holly spat a blob of gel onto the deck. "Not likely, Turnball."

Turnball kicked her again. "You will address me by my rank."

Holly spoke through gritted teeth. "I doubt it."

"I don’t doubt it," said Turnball, and put his boot on her throat. From his pocket he pulled what looked like a penlight.

"This looks like a penlight, doesn’t it?"

Holly could not speak, but she was guessing the slim cylinder was something more sinister than a light.

"Yet it is quite a bit more than that. You may have guessed that black-magic runes are something of a hobby of mine. Illegal, yes, but almost everything I do is illegal, so why start worrying now? What this little laser does is burn the rune directly into the skin of the person I wish to enslave. No magic necessary. So long as I have the corresponding rune on my person, then you are in my thrall forever."

Turnball showed his thumb to Holly, the one with Vishby’s rune still inscribed on the pad, the magic of which could be transferred to her now that Vishby was dead. "And guess what, my dear? A free slot just opened up in my organization."

Root activated the laser and hummed for a moment until the tip turned red, then he jammed it into Holly’s neck, branding her with his binding rune. Holly bucked and screamed in a black-magic fit. "Not so gentle as the touch," noted Turnball, stepping out of puke range just in case. The fit lasted less than a minute, leaving Holly rigid on the floor, breathing abnormally fast, eyelids fluttering. Turnball licked the blood rune on his own thumb. "Now, Miss Short, what say we go and kidnap a warlock?" Holly stood, arms stiff by her side, eyes unfocused.

"Yes, Captain," she said.

Turnball clapped her on the back. "That’s more like it, Short. Isn’t it liberating not to have a choice? You just do what I say, and nothing is your fault."

"Yes, Captain. Most liberating."

Turnball handed her a Neutrino. "Feel free to kill anyone who gets in your way."

Holly checked the battery level expertly. "Anyone who gets in my way, I kill them."

"I like these lasers," said Turnball, twiddling the rune pen. "Let’s do someone else. Tell the bot to pop young Fowl out of his bubble, Unix. It will be nice to have a pet genius."

Unix dragged his finger across the touch screen, and Artemis flopped gasping to the floor like a fish out of water.

The Aquanaut Nostremius, Atlantis Trench; Now

The young demon warlock who chose to call himself N º1 was feeling extremely sad. He was a sensitive little fellow—though you would not think it to look at his gray armor-plated hide and the squat head that seemed to push its way out of his lumpy shoulders—but he felt others’ pain, and this trait, according to his master, was what made him such an excellent warlock.

There was a lot of pain in the fairy world today. The Martian probe disasters in Iceland and the Atlantis Trench were the worst fairy disasters to have occurred in recent times. To the humans, injury on this scale would probably not even make it onto the big news stations, but the fairy folk were small in number and cautious by nature, so to have two probe-related disasters in one cycle was horrific. But at least a larger catastrophe had been averted by the efficient evacuation of Atlantis. No1 had barely begun to grieve for the loss of his friends in Iceland, when the LEP had informed him that Holly, Foaly, and Artemis had actually survived.

Commander Trouble Kelp asked him to go to Atlantis on the Nostremius hospital ship to help heal those injured by the probe’s blast wave. The little demon had immediately agreed, hoping that he could distract himself for a short period at least by using his powers to help others. And now news had filtered through that Holly’s escape pod had gone down at sea, and all hands were presumed lost. It was too much to process: dead, alive, then dead again. If Holly had had some magic in her system, No1 might have been able to sense her out there somewhere, but he could feel nothing.

So for the past several hours No1 had worked himself ragged, laying hands on the injured. He had knitted bones, sealed gashes, repaired ruptured organs, drawn salt water from lungs, draped veils of calm over hysteria, and, in some extreme cases, wiped the entire pileup from people’s memory. For the first time since he had blossomed as a warlock, No1 was actually feeling a little depleted. But he could not leave right now, as word had just come over the aquanaut’s speakers that yet another ambulance had docked.

I need to sleep, he thought wearily. But not to dream. I would only dream of Holly. I cannot believe she’s gone.

And something made him look up at that moment, and he saw Holly Short walking down the corridor toward the quarantine door. The sight was so unexpected that No1 was strangely unsurprised.

It’s Holly, but she’s moving weirdly. As though she’s underwater.

No1 finished the bone knit he was working on, then left the cleanup to a nurse. He shambled toward the security door, where Holly was having her retina scanned. The computer accepted her LEP credentials and popped open with a pneumatic hiss.

Nº1 skipped outside to prevent Holly entering.

"We have to keep that area germ free," he said, sorry these had to be the first words he uttered to his resurrected friend. "And you look like you just escaped from toxic garbage." Then he hugged her tightly. "You smell like a toxic dump too, but you’re alive. Thank goodness. Tell me, did Foaly survive? Please say he did. And Artemis? I couldn’t bear it when I heard you were all gone."

Holly did not meet his eyes. "Artemis is sick. I need you to come."

No1 was immediately desolate, his mood swinging rapidly like a small child’s. "Artemis is sick? Oh no. Bring him in and we can take care of him here."

Holly turned back the way she had come. "No. He can’t be moved. You need to follow me."

No1 jogged after his friend Holly without a moment’s hesitation. "Is it a broken bone, is that it? Artemis can’t be moved? Is Foaly okay? Where did you guys go?"

But there were no answers for the little demon, and all he could do was follow Holly’s square shoulders through the throngs of walking wounded, past the cots that had been erected in the hallways. The smell of disinfectant burned his nostrils, and the cries of the injured seared his heart.

I’ll just fix Artemis quickly. Maybe lie down for a minute, then get back to work.

No1 was a good soul, and it never for a moment occurred to him to probe Holly a little to make sure she was fully herself. It never crossed his mind that one of his closest friends could be leading him into a life of servitude.

Turnball sat by Leonor’s bed in the stolen shuttle ambulance, holding her hand while she slept. He felt a little giddy about changing his plan at the last minute. It was quite the cavalier move, and the rush of adrenaline reminded him of his younger days.

"It was all seat-of-the-pants stuff before I went to prison," he confided to the sleeping Leonor. "I was a captain in the LEP and running the underworld at the same time. To be honest, there wasn’t much of an underworld before I came along. In the morning I would chair a meeting of the task force that was trying to apprehend me, and in the evening I would be doing black-market deals with the goblin gangs." Turnball smiled and shook his head. "Good days."

Leonor did not react, as Turnball had thought it best to give her just a drop of sedative until the warlock had restored her youth. He knew from her talk of death that he was losing his grip on his wife, and she was not strong enough to survive another thrall rune.

So sleep, my darling. Sleep. Soon, all will be as it was.

As soon as Captain Short returned with the demon. And if she did not? Then he would board the Nostremius and take the warlock by force. Perhaps he would lose a crew member or two, but they should be glad to die for their captain’s wife.

One level down, in the brig, Bobb Ragby was on guard duty, a duty that he was enjoying immensely, as he considered it payback for all the years he himself had been lorded over by guards. It didn’t matter to Bobb that his gel-bound prisoners weren’t actually the people who’d watched over him: that was just their bad luck. He was taking special pleasure in teasing Mulch Diggums, whom he had long considered a competitor in the top criminal dwarf competition that he’d played in his head during the long hours spent on the toilet, thanks to a diet of processed food.

Turnball had ordered him to split the amorphobots for safety, and now one hung in each corner of the cell like a giant wobbling egg sac.

If any of them act up, then use the shocker feature at your own discretion, Turnball had said. And if they try to shoot their way out, make sure we get that on video so we can have a good laugh later.

Ragby had decided he would definitely use the shocker at the first provocation, maybe before the first provocation.

"Hey, Diggums, why don’t you try to eat some of the gel so I have an excuse to electrocute you?"

Mulch did not waste his energy talking: he simply bared his enormous teeth.

"Yeah?" said Ragby. "They ain’t so big. The more I look at you, Diggums, the less I believe all that junk your little groupies spew back at The Sozzled Parrot. You don’t look like much of a burglar to me, Diggums. I think you’re a phoney. A fraud, a tale-spinning liar."

Mulch brought a hand up to his face. Yawn.

Artemis had been returned to the grip of his amorphobot once the branding had been completed, and with nothing to do but think in its clammy folds, he could feel whatever was left of his battered personality slipping away. The rune on his neck had taken hold of his willpower in a vicelike grip, and while he could think and speak at the moment, it took a lot of effort, and he guessed that he only had those rudimentary functions because Turnball hadn’t given him any specific instructions yet. Once he had his orders, then he would be powerless to resist.

Turnball will be able to order me to do anything, he realized.

Through the distorting field of gel, Artemis could see Ragby taunting Mulch, and thought that perhaps it would be a good idea if he joined the argument.

Speaking through the gel was a tricky affair that involved forming the words through clenched teeth, which kept the gel out but allowed it to pick up vibration in the throat.

"Hello, Mr. Ragby," he said. The amorphobot sprouted a gel speaker and translated the vibrations into words.

"Hey, look," said Ragby. "The thrall speaks. What do you want, Mud Boy? A little shock, is that what you want?"

Artemis decided that highbrow intellectual argument was not the way to go with this person, and chose to go straight for the personal insult.

"I want you to have a bath, dwarf. You stink."

Ragby was delighted to have a little diversion. "Wow. That’s like actual grown-up fighting talk. You do know that your bodyguard is out of action?"

If Butler had been equipped with laser eyeballs, Bobb Ragby would have had holes bored right through his skull.

What are you up to, Artemis? wondered Butler. This kind of insult is not your style.

"I don’t need a bodyguard to dispose of you, Ragby," continued Artemis. "Just a bucket of water and a wire brush."

"Funny," said Ragby, though he sounded a little less amused than previously.

"Perhaps some disinfectant, so your germs would not spread."

"I have a fungus," said Ragby. "It’s a real medical condition and it’s very hurtful of you to bring it up."

"Awww," said Artemis. "Is the big tough dwarf in pain?"

Ragby had had enough. "Not as much pain as you," he said, and instructed the bot to pass a charge through its gel sac.

Artemis was attacked by shards of white lightning. He jittered for a moment like a marionette in the hands of a toddler, then relaxed, floating unconscious in the gel.

Ragby laughed. "Not so funny now, are you?"

Butler growled, which would have been menacing had not his bot speakers translated it as a robotic purr, then he began to push. It should have been impossible for him to make any impact without traction, but somehow he actually managed to distend the gel, causing the bot to chitter as though being tickled.

"You guys are hilarious," said Ragby, and allowed Butler to wear himself out for a few minutes before he grew bored and shocked the bodyguard. Not enough to knock the big human out, but certainly enough to calm him down a little.

"Two down," he said cheerily. "Who’s next?"

"Me," said Mulch. "I’m next."

Bobb Ragby turned to find Mulch Diggums rolled into a ball, rear end pointed directly at Bobb himself. The rear end was not covered by material, or, in other words, it was a bare bottom and it meant business.

Ragby, as a dwarf himself and a subscriber to Where the Wind Blows monthly, knew exactly what was about to happen.

"No way," he breathed. He should shock Diggums, he knew, but this was too much entertainment to pass up. If things got out of hand, he could press the button; until then no harm in watching. Just in time, he remembered to press record on the security cameras, in case the captain wanted a look later.

"Go on, Diggums. If you actually break free, then I’ll present my own backside for a good kicking."

Mulch did not reply: breathing was too difficult inside the gel to go wasting any precious energy trading insults with Bobb Ragby. Instead he wrapped his forearms around his shins and bore down on his colon, which was inflated like a very long balloon snake.

"Go, Mulch!" whooped Ragby. "Make your people proud. Just so you know, this will be up on the Ethernet in about five minutes."

The first bubble to emerge was cantaloupe sized. These big bubbles were known among dwarf tunnelers as corkers, from back in the days when corks were used to cap bottles. Often a corker had to be cleared before the main flow could begin.

"Good-sized corker," Bobb Ragby admitted.

Once the corker was out of his system, Mulch followed it with a flurry of smaller squibs, which emerged into the gel with an initial speed that was quickly arrested by the bot’s gel.

"Is that it?" called Bobb, a little disappointed, truth be known. "Is that all you got?"

That was not all Mulch had got. A hundred more assorted squibs quickly followed, some spheres, some ellipsoids, and Ragby swore he saw a cube.

"Now you’re just showing off!" he said.

The bubbles just kept on coming in various sizes and shapes. Some were transparent, some suspiciously opaque, and a few had wisps of gas inside that crackled when they hit the gel.

The bot chittered nervously, the metal hardware heart flashing orange as its built-in spectrometer struggled to analyze the gas’s components.

"Now that I have never seen," said Bobb, his finger hovering over the shocker button.

Still the bubbles flowed, inflating the amorphobot to twice its original size. Its chitterings climbed the octaves until eventually they shattered nearby medical beakers and climbed to ultrasonic wavelengths, too high for the humans and fairies to hear.

The shrieking has stopped, thought Bobb. That must mean the danger is past.

He couldn’t have been more wrong.

Mulch was virtually invisible now behind the bubbles, his image twisted and refracted by their curved surfaces. More and more bubbles were produced. Mulch seemed to be the dwarf equivalent of a clown’s car that could hold more passengers than would seem to be allowed by the laws of physics. The amorphobot was stretched to its limits, and its surface was dappled by the pressure. It began bouncing on the spot, venting bursts of the mysterious smoky gas.

"Well, Mulch, it’s been fun," said Bobb Ragby, and reluctantly pressed the shocker button, which, as it turned out, was the wrong thing to do. Even the amorphobot tried to refuse the order, but Ragby insisted, jabbing the button again and again until the familiar crackling sparked from two nodes on its metallic heart. Any first-day chemistry student could have told Ragby never to put sparks near a mystery gas.

Unfortunately, Ragby had never met any first-day chemistry students, and so it came as a total surprise to him when the gas passed by Mulch Diggums ignited, bubble after bubble, in a chain reaction of mini explosions.

The bot expanded and ruptured, gel jets erupting from its surface. It bounced from floor to ceiling then pinballed across the cell, running Ragby over like a giant tire. It was a testament to Foaly’s design and standards that the amorphobot held its integrity even under such extreme circumstances. It transferred gel from unscorched sections and grafted them onto ruined areas.

Ragby lay stunned on the deck while the bot came to rest across the hatch, shuddering and heaving. In cases like this, it had a deep-rooted self-preservation order that Turnball had not thought to override. In the event that a sample collected by one of the amorphobots proved dangerous to the bot’s systems, then that subject was to be immediately ejected. And this pungent dwarf was definitely dangerous, and so the damaged amorphobot hawked Mulch Diggums onto the blackened deck, where he lay, smoking.

"I should never have had all that vole curry," he mumbled, then passed out.

Bobb Ragby was the first dwarf to recover.

"That was something," he said, then spat out a lump of charred gel. "You got out, darn it if you didn’t, so I suppose by rights I should present my behind for a kicking."

Ragby lowered his wide bottom toward Mulch’s unconscious face, but got no reaction.

"No takers?" he said. "Well, you can’t say I didn’t offer."

"Here," said a voice behind him. "Let me kick that for you."

He twisted his neck around just in time to see an enormous boot heading for his behind, and behind that boot there was an angry head, which, in spite of being a little out of focus because of Bobb’s perspective, unmistakably belonged to the human Butler.

Mulch had never believed he would actually get out of the amorphobot’s belly, but he had hoped to distract Bobb Ragby for a few moments so that Foaly could come up with one of his genius techy plans.

And that was exactly what had happened. While Ragby had been occupied watching the gastrobatics of his fellow dwarf, Foaly had been busy syncing the bot core Artemis had picked up at the impact site with the core in his own amorphobot. In a laboratory it would have taken him about ten seconds to connect and send a string of code to shut out the instructions from the stolen control orb, but, suspended inside an amorphobot, it took the centaur at least half a minute. As soon as the readout flashed green, Foaly networked with the remaining bots and instructed them to dissolve.

Half a second later, Juliet and Foaly flopped to the floor, tears in their eyes, gel in their windpipes. Artemis lay unmoving, still unconscious from his electrocution.

Butler landed on his feet, spat and attacked.

* * *

Poor Bobb Ragby never had a chance, not that Butler did much to him. All it took was one kick, then the dwarf’s terror took hold and jetted him straight into the lip of a metal bunk. He collapsed with a surprisingly childlike moan.

Butler turned quickly to Artemis and checked his pulse.

"How’s Artemis’s heart?" asked Juliet, bending to check on Mulch.

"It’s beating," replied her brother. "That’s about all I can tell you. We need to get him over to that hospital ship. Mulch too." The dwarf coughed then muttered something about beer and cheese pies.

"Do you mean beer, and cheese pies? Or beer-and-cheese pies?" Juliet glanced at her brother. "Mulch may be delirious—it’s hard to tell."

Butler took Bobb Ragby’s gun from his belt, then tossed him bodily onto Foaly’s broad back.

"Okay. Here’s the strategy. We take Artemis and Mulch across to the Nostremius’s sick bay, then I retrieve Holly if necessary."

Juliet’s head snapped back. "But Foaly can do—"

"Get moving," thundered Butler. "Go immediately. I do not want to talk about it."

"Okay. But if you’re not with us in five minutes, I’m coming after you."

"I would appreciate that," said Butler, propping Mulch on Foaly’s back, then the unconscious Artemis. "And if you could bring any troops you find along the way, that would be great."

"Troops on a hospital ship?" said Foaly, trying his best not to smell what was on his back. "You’ll be lucky."

Mulch’s tongue lolled out, resting on the centaur’s neck. "Mmm," he mumbled around his tongue. "Horse. Tasty."

"Let’s go," said Foaly nervously. "Let’s go right now."

The ambulance was a small ship compared to the massive aquanaut that loomed over them. The little craft had two levels: a sick bay and cell downstairs and on top of the spiral staircase a bridge with a small trucker’s cabin, and apart from a couple of nooks for storage and recycling, and the room in which they’d been imprisoned, that was it. Luckily for Butler and the others, the umbilical across to the Nostremius was on the bottom level.

Ching Mayle was peering across through the umbilical, obviously waiting for Holly’s return with the demon warlock.

"Please," whispered Juliet, when they saw the goblin at the hatch, "allow me."

Butler was holding both Artemis and Mulch steady on Foaly’s back; Bobb Ragby he was not so worried about. "Knock yourself out," he said. "Or, rather, knock the other guy out."

Being a wrestler, Juliet could not simply run at Ching Mayle and knock him out—she had to add a little drama.

She ran down the corridor crying hysterically, "Help me, Mr. Goblin. Save me."

Ching removed his fingers from the bite marks on his skull he was forever scratching, which of course meant that they never healed properly.

"Uh . . . save you from what?"

Juliet sniffled. "There’s a big ugly goblin trying to stop us from leaving the ship."

Mayle reached for his gun. "There’s a what?"

"A big ugly guy, with all these septic dents in his head."

Ching licked his eyeballs. "Septic dents? Hey, wait a minute. . . ."

"Finally," said Juliet, and pirouetted like an ice skater, whacking Ching Mayle with her signature jade ring. He tumbled into the umbilical passage, sliding down to the low point. Juliet caught his weapon before it hit the deck.

"One more down," she said.

"You couldn’t just punch him in the head," grumbled Butler, leading Foaly past her. "Boo-hoo. Help me, I’m a girl. What kind of modern woman are you?"

"A smart one," said Juliet. "He never even got a shot off."

Butler was not impressed. "He should never have got a hand to his gun. Next time, just hit the goblin. You’re lucky he didn’t blast you with a fireball."

"Oh no," said Foaly, pushing through a rope curtain that seemed to be coated with disinfectant, and into the umbilical passage. "No flame near the umbilical. This is a pressurized tube with an oxygen-helium mix, heavy on the oxygen because of the pressure. One spark in here and first we explode, then the tube ruptures and the ocean squashes us flat."

One by one they stepped into the umbilical. It was an incredible construction. A double-skinned tube of transparent super-tough plastic, strengthened with a wrap of octagonal wire mesh. Air pumps hummed loudly along its length, and light orbs drew deep-sea creatures to it, including Artemis’s giant squid, which had wrapped itself around the umbilical’s central span and was gnawing the wire frame with its beak. Its chitin-lined suckers scraped the plastic, smearing long welts along the tube.

"Don’t worry," said Foaly confidently. "That creature can’t get through. We’ve done a thousand stress tests."

"With actual giant squid?" asked Juliet, understandably concerned.

"No," admitted Foaly.

"So just computer tests, then?"

"Absolutely not," said Foaly, offended. "We used a normal squid and a tiny umbilical model. It worked quite well until one of my dwarf lab assistants fancied some calamari."

Juliet shuddered. "It’s just that I have a thing about giant squid."

"Don’t we all?" said Foaly, and clopped past her down the umbilical.

The passage was fifty yards long with a slight incline at either end. The walkway beneath their feet was coated with a slightly tacky substance to prevent any accidental sparking, and there were fire-extinguishing scatter bombs at regular intervals that would automatically coat the tube with powder in the event of a fire breaking out.

Foaly pointed at one of the fire-extinguishing bombs. "In all honesty, those are for show. If so much as a spark gets loose in here, not even the squid is going to survive."

They proceeded across to the aquanaut, feeling the cold of the ocean radiate through the walls, breathing the sharp oxygen-rich air. The Nostremius hospital ship loomed above, four stories high, curved green walls dotted by a thousand glowing portholes, anchored to the seabed by a dozen bus-sized anchors. Umbilicals stretched from several ports, and shadowy figures could be seen shuffling across from their ships to the Nostremius. It was a somber, surreal image.

Foaly led, carrying Artemis, Mulch, and a snoring Bobb Ragby, complaining every step of the way.

"Passengers. Centaurs don’t carry passengers. Just because we have a horse’s torso doesn’t mean we have a horse’s temperament. This is demeaning, that’s what it is."

Neither Juliet nor Butler took any notice. They were in a dangerous stretch right now, and any confrontation had to be quickly contained or it could mean a watery grave for them all.

On Foaly’s back, Artemis moaned and stirred. Butler patted his shoulder.

"You just stay asleep, young man. No need to wake up now."

As much respect as Butler had for Artemis’s abilities, he couldn’t think how they could help in this situation, especially with that angry-looking rune burned into his neck.

They were two-thirds of the way across when the hatch on the Nostremius slid open, and Holly stepped through, followed by No1.

There was no emotion in Holly’s eyes, but she calmly assessed the situation and drew the Neutrino from her holster, taking a quick bead on Butler’s forehead. From the look on her face, she could have been about to shoot a dart at a fairground target.

"No, Captain Short," said Turnball’s voice from behind Butler. "No guns in here."

Turnball stood at the entrance to the ambulance with Unix, as ever, at one shoulder, and Ark Sool hovering at the other.

Juliet was on rear-guard duty. "It’s the jolly pirate," she called to her brother. "And his merry idiots. I think that without guns we’re in pretty good shape. Should I go over there and beat some respect for life into them?"

Butler held up two fingers. Wait.

This was a nightmare scenario for any bodyguard: stuck in the middle of a transparent tube, several miles underwater, with a murdering band of fugitives at one end and an enthralled but still highly skilled police officer at the other.

Poor No1 had no idea what kind of drama he had stepped into.

"Holly, what’s going on? Are we in the middle of one of your big adventures? Should I zap someone?"

Holly stood impassively waiting for instructions, but Butler heard what No1 had said. "No magic, No1. One spark could blow up this entire platform."

No1 sighed. "Can’t you people ever just go on a picnic or something? Do there always have to be explosions?"

Artemis moaned again, then slid from behind Mulch off Foaly’s back onto the walkway.

Standing in the doorway of the stolen shuttle ambulance, gazing down the umbilical toward Butler, Turnball realized he had a few marked cards in the deck. "Ah," he said. "My little genius awakes. This should make our game interesting."

Butler turned sideways to make himself a smaller target. There were to be no guns in this showdown, but there could be blades. "Go back inside," he called to No1. "Go in and shut the hatch."

The demon warlock tapped Holly’s shoulder. "Should I go in, Holly? Would that be the best thing to do?"

Holly did not answer, but with that touch, No1 felt the rune spell that squatted like a parasite on her mind. It seemed purple to him, and malignant, and somehow aware. In his imagination, the reptilian rune crouching on Holly’s brain snarled at him and nipped with venomous teeth.

"Oh," said No1, withdrawing his finger sharply.

I could undo the spell, he thought. But it would be delicate work to avoid brain damage, and there would definitely be sparks.

He took a slow step backward, but Holly quickly walked around him and smashed the heel of her hand into the door mechanism, sealing it for as long as it took for maintenance to get a fairy down there. Which would be way too long.

"No running away, young Master Demon," called Turnball. "I have need of your magic."

My magic, thought No1. There must be something I can do. The mesmer doesn’t require any sparks.

"Listen to me, Holly," said the demon warlock, his voice multilayered with magic. "Look into my eyes."

Which was as far as he got before Holly brought the edge of her hand down in a chopping motion that hit No1 accurately in the gap between the armor plates on his chest and neck. Right in the windpipe. The demon collapsed to the ground, gasping. It would be minutes before he could do as much as squeak.

Turnball laughed cruelly. "Rune trumps mesmer, would say."

Butler tried to ignore the more extreme circumstances, such as the explosive gas they were breathing and the giant squid giving him the evil eye from outside the umbilical tube, and treat the situation as a common alley brawl.

I have been in this situation a dozen times. Admittedly, we are flanked, but Juliet and I could take these and a dozen more. Holly can fight, but she is mesmerized, and that will slow her down. Why is Turnball so confident with only a gnome and a sprite by his side?

"Ready, sister?" he said.

"Say the word."

"I’ll take Turnball and his friends. You contain Holly without doing any damage if you can manage it."

"Okay, brother."

"What should I do?" asked Foaly, trying to keep the whinny out of his voice.

"Stand over Artemis and Mulch. Keep them safe."

"Very well, Butler," said the centaur, feeling utterly helpless, as he always did in violent situations. "You can count on me."

Butler and Juliet switched sides, touching hands briefly on the way past.

"Be careful. Holly is quick."

"You too. I don’t trust that Turnball guy."

Both of these statements would shortly prove themselves true. Unfortunately, Butler had formulated their plan of action without two vital pieces of information. First of all, Holly was not mesmerized, she was enthralled by a rune, and where the mesmer slowed the enchanted person down, runes certainly did not. In fact, they gave the victim access to more life force than they would normally have, which is why long-term thralls must not be allowed to get too excited for too long or they will literally burn themselves out. The second piece of information Butler did not have was the fact that Turnball had anticipated he might have to fight his way through an umbilical, and so was armed accordingly.

The Butlers went down within seconds of each other. Juliet ran full tilt for Holly, no chatter or exaggerated wrestling moves—Holly was a serious opponent. The serious opponent stood listlessly, arms dangling until the last possible moment, then she ducked low, so quickly that it seemed a ghost image hung in the space where she had been, and swept Juliet’s legs from under her. Juliet banged her head hard on the walkway, and by the time her vision cleared, Holly was on her chest with her Neutrino leveled at Juliet’s head.

"No sparks," panted Juliet. "No sparks."

"No sparks," repeated Holly dully, then stuffed the gun barrel down the front of Juliet’s Jade Princess leotard and pulled the trigger. Juliet spasmed once, then collapsed. There were no sparks.

At the other end of the conduit, Butler had not rushed forward with quite so much gusto. If things were as they seemed, he could easily defeat Turnball and his little henchfairies. Perhaps a menacing approach would be enough to scare them into running away.

Turnball seemed a little irritated and not at all scared. "Mr. Butler, as a manservant to a great strategist, didn’t it occur to you that another great strategist such as myself might have anticipated this moment, or one like it?"

Butler’s stomach sank. Turnball is armed.

Butler’s only option was to cover the remaining distance before Turnball managed to aim his weapon. He almost made it, but then almost in a fight is about as useful as rubber needles in a knitting contest.

Turnball unclipped the stumpy weapon on a lanyard behind his back and shot Butler eight times in the chest and head. The bodyguard’s eyes rolled back in his head, but his momentum drove him forward, and Turnball had to skip smartly to one side to avoid being crushed. Ark Sool and Unix were not so lucky. Butler landed on them like a meteor, driving every last gasp of air from their bodies and breaking several ribs.

"Olé!" said Turnball, who had made a point of attending the bullfights whenever he was in Spain, not seeming too upset by the loss of his crew.

The vibrations set off one of the fire-extinguisher powder packs, which must have been on a hair trigger, and filled the umbilical with floating white powder.

"‘Oh, the weather outside is frightful,’" sang Turnball, pointing his gun at Foaly, who was trying to at least look brave. "Do you like my weapon? It was developed for crowd control during the first goblin riots. Purely chemical. Shoots Zolpidem tartrate knockout pellets. Gas powered, with dissolvable shells. No sparks. Sometimes low-tech is the way to go."

Artemis suddenly drew a lungful of air, as though he had just breached the ocean’s surface.

"Ah, my genius surfaces. Stand up, Artemis. I command you."

Artemis lurched to his feet, his head and clothes matted with white powder.

"Choke that centaur for me, would you?"

There followed an uncomfortable minute while Artemis tried to find some purchase on Foaly’s broad neck, then squeezed with all the power in his fingers, which was not very much. Foaly was more embarrassed than hurt.

Turnball wiped a tear from his eye. "Oh, this is too much. But I indulge myself—Leonor is waiting. Come here, Artemis, and you too, Captain Short. Bring the demon. We must be gone from here before the ambulance generator blows."

Artemis and Holly did as they were told with the emotion of automatons. Holly yanked poor, gasping No1 along by the collar of his tunic, and Artemis stepped past Foaly without a glance. Outside the conduit, the fish and squid paid close attention to this fascinating diversion from the dreariness of everyday subaquatic life.

Suddenly, Turnball was impatient to be off.

"Come now, my thralls. Where is the speed you are famous for?"

Artemis did speed up, showing a nimbleness that anyone who knew the boy would not associate with him.

"That’s more like it," said Turnball. "I may keep you, Artemis."

"That’s nice," said the human boy. "I’ll tell him when I see him."

"Ehm," said Turnball, puzzled; then the boy who looked like Artemis Fowl jabbed Turnball in the gut with stiffened fingers.

"Butler showed Artemis that one a thousand times," said the boy. "He didn’t listen, but I did."

Turnball wanted to say something, but he was winded, and even if he hadn’t been, he had no idea what he would have said.

"For I am not Artemis Fowl, villainous elf," said Orion, twisting the gun from Turnball’s fingers. "I am the young romantic who always knew his day would come, so I listened to Butler and I am ready."

Turnball got enough breath back for one word. "How?"

"Artemis knew he had to escape the power of the rune, which controlled his mind but not mine, so he goaded your cretinous minion into shocking him, which released me."

Turnball clasped his stomach. Of course. Atlantis stage two. He rested both elbows on his knees and rasped at Holly. "Kill him. Kill the boy."

Orion pivoted and aimed the gun at Holly. "Please, sweet maiden. Do not force my hand, for I will strike for the good of all."

Holly threw No1 aside and ran full tilt, side to side.

"Artemis could never shoot," she snarled.

Orion squared his shoulders and extended his hands, supporting his right hand with his left. Both Artemis and Orion were ambidextrous, but, unlike Artemis, Orion favored his right hand. He remembered what Butler had said time and time again: Sight along your arm. Breathe out and squeeze.

The first pellet caught Holly on the cheek, the second on the forehead, and the third on the shoulder, which took a second to penetrate. Holly’s speed took her halfway up the curved wall before her body gave out, and she slid back down on her face.

Orion turned to Turnball, who was sneaking up on him.

"Be still, foul demon."

"Hey," said No1, who was getting his breath back.

"Apologies, gentle mage," said Orion. "I was referring to my piratical foe."

"Four," said Turnball, with some desperation. "Four four four."

Orion laughed a haughty hero’s laugh. "No such luck, Turnball Root. Your evil plans have been thwarted. Accept your fate."

Turnball’s face turned slowly purple, a family trait.

"I need the demon," he bellowed, spittle spraying from his lips. "Turn him over, or we all die."

"Too late for hollow threats, my friend. You have been outfoxed. Now, sit still while my compadre, the noble steed, binds your hands."

Turnball took a whooping breath and stood erect. "No. I have one card left to play. The ambulance is rigged to explode. The autopilot is smashed and the generator has been exposed—there is no turning back. Give me the demon and I will pilot the shuttle deep into the trench, then escape in the belly of an amorphobot. There is room for one more besides Leonor. I can take you instead of No1."

Foaly sucked his lips. "Ah. Okay. Little problem with that plan. I dissolved the bots."

"So that was your plot," said Orion fiercely, brandishing the gun like a cutlass. "You would take what you wanted and then bury the evidence in the explosion."

Turnball shrugged, suddenly calm. He had always known a day like this would come. "It has worked for me before." He consulted a timer on his wrist computer. "In five minutes the shuttle explodes and we all die. If you will excuse me, I must go to my wife’s bedside."

He turned to find his wife a little closer than expected. Leonor stood framed by the umbilical’s curtain, leaning heavily on her walking stick, face pale in the glow from the light orbs.

"Turnball, what’s happening?" she said, her breath labored, but both eyes were open and they were clear. Clearer than they had been since they’d first met.

Turnball rushed to her side, supporting her with one arm.

"Yes, my dear. You should lie down. Things will be better soon."

Leonor snapped as she had not for a long time. "You just said the ship will explode."

Turnball’s eyes were wide with surprise—his beloved wife had never snapped at him before—but he kept a gentle smile on his lips. "What does it matter, so long as we are together? Even death will not separate us."

From somewhere, Leonor found the strength to stand straight. "I am ready for my long sleep, Turnball. But you are young, these people are young, and is that not a hospital ship we are moored to?"

"Yes, yes it is. But these people are my enemies. They have persecuted me." Turnball licked the rune on his thumb, but Leonor was beyond his power now.

"I think that perhaps you were far from blameless, my dear, but I was blinded by love. I have always loved you, Turnball. I always will."

Orion was getting anxious. The seconds were ticking away, and he had no wish to see his beloved Holly at the heart of an explosion.

"Step aside, madam," he said to Leonor. "I must pilot this ship deep into the trench."

Leonor raised her stick shakily. "No. I will take this journey alone. I have outstayed my welcome on this earth, and shut my eyes to what was happening around me. Now at last I will fly where I never thought possible." She stroked Turnball’s wet cheek and kissed him. "At last I can finally fly again, Turnball."

Turnball clasped his wife’s shoulders tenderly. "You can fly, you will. But not now. This flight is death, and I cannot be without you. Don’t you want what we had?"

"Those times are gone," said Leonor simply. "Perhaps they should never have been. Now, you must let me go, or else you must try to stop me."

This was an ultimatum that Turnball had been dreading since first applying the rune to Leonor’s neck. He was about to lose his wife, and there was nothing he could do about it. His emotions played across his face, and a network of lines appeared around his eyes as though drawn by an invisible pen.

"I must go, Turnball," said Leonor softly.

"Fly, my love," said Turnball, and he seemed in that moment as old as his wife.

"Let me do this for you, my love. Let me save you, as you saved me all those years ago." Leonor kissed him again and withdrew through the curtain.

Turnball stood for a moment, shoulders shuddering, chin down, then he pulled himself together.

He faced Orion and jerked a thumb toward the ambulance. "I should go. Leonor will never make it back up the steps on her own."

And with such an ordinary statement, he was gone, the hatch sealing behind him.

"Understated but graceful," said Orion. "A nice exit."

The Butlers were both unconscious, which would be a source of some ribbing and embarrassment later, so they did not see the stolen ambulance shuttle detach itself from the umbilical conduit and peel away from the Nostremius, Leonor and Turnball clearly visible at the cockpit controls. And they completely missed the shuttle diving deep into the Atlantis Trench in a long graceful arc.

"That woman is quite a pilot," said Orion. "I imagine they are holding hands now and smiling bravely."

Moments later a hellfire blossom grew from the depths of the trench, but the explosion was quickly extinguished by the millions of tons of water bearing down on it. The shock currents, however, raced along the raised ridge, dislodging centuries-old coral and rippling the untethered end of the umbilical conduit like a child would a skipping rope, sending the squid scurrying for safety.

The tube’s occupants were jumbled together, heroes and villains alike, and swept to the Nostremius’s door, which moments later was opened from the inside by a confused technical officer, a hardened sea gnome, who, to his eternal shame, squealed like a baby sprite when he came face-to-face with a gigantic human covered in white dust.

"Zombie!" he shrieked, and, unfortunately for him, two of his shift buddies were in the air lock behind him, and it cost him three weeks’ pudding rations to buy their silence.





EPILOGUE

ARTEMIS woke to find Holly and Foaly leaning over him. Holly seemed concerned, whereas Foaly was scrutinizing him, as one would a lab experiment.

I am not in pain, thought Artemis. They must have given me something.

And then: I should lighten the mood.

"Ah, my princess. Noble steed. How does the morning find you both?"

"D’Arvit," said Holly. "It’s the knight in shining armor."

"Hmm," said Foaly. "That’s how Atlantis goes. As it progresses, you can never predict what will set it off. I thought the cocktail of drugs would bring back Artemis, but at least Orion will tell us what Artemis is up to." He leaned in closer. "Orion, you noble youth. Do you happen to know the password for Artemis’s firewall?"

"Of course I do," said Artemis. "It’s D-O-N-K-E-Y space B-O-Y."

Foaly was halfway through writing this down when the penny dropped.

"Oh, ha-ha, Artemis. Most hilarious. I knew it was you all the time."

Holly did not laugh. "That wasn’t funny, Artemis. Atlantis Complex is no joke."

At the mere mention of the disease, Artemis felt the nest of malignant fours stir at the back of his head.

Not again, he thought.

"It would really help if you two swapped places," he said, trying to sound calm and in control. "Also, could you close those two porthole blinds all the way? Or open all the way, but not in the middle like that? That makes no sense."

Holly wanted to shake Artemis until he snapped out of it, but she had talked to Dr. Argon of the Psych Brotherhood, and he had told them to humor the human until they could get him checked into the clinic.

Opal Koboi’s old room is still free, the doctor had said brightly, and Holly suspected he was already thinking of titles for the inevitable book.

So she said, "Okay, Artemis. I’ll get the blinds."

As Holly tapped the little sun icon beside the blind, lightening the glass, she noticed the shoals of exotic fish basking in the pod light from the Nostremius’s stern fins.

We are all swimming toward the light, she realized, and then wondered when she’d become so philosophical. Too much thinking is one of the things that put Artemis where he is now. We need to deal with this problem.

"Artemis," she said, forcing a note of positivity into her voice, "Dr. Argon wondered if you had any kind of record of . . ."

"My descent into madness?" completed Artemis.

"Well, he actually said, the Complex’s progression. He said keeping a journal of some kind is common among sufferers. They feel a great need to be understood after . .."

Again Artemis completed the sentence. "After we die. I know. I feel that compulsion still." He tugged off the ring from his middle finger. "It’s my fairy communicator, remember? I kept a video diary. Should make terrifying viewing."

Foaly took the ring. "Let me zap that down to Argon. It will give him a little insight before he gets you strapped into the crazy chair." The centaur realized what he had said. "Sorry. Cabelline is always saying how insensitive I am. There’s no crazy chair, it’s more like a couch or a futon."

"We get it, Foaly," said Holly. "Thanks so much."

The centaur clopped to the hospital room’s automatic door. "Okay. I’ll send this off. See you later, and watch out for those evil fours."

Artemis winced. Holly was right: the Atlantis Complex was not funny.

Holly sat on the chair beside his bed. It was a very high-tech bed with stabilizers and impact cushions, but unfortunately a little short.

"You’re growing, Artemis," she said.

Artemis smiled weakly. "I know. Not fast enough in some ways."

Holly took his hand. "You can try to upset yourself if you want, but you won’t be able to. Foaly pumped enough sedative into you to put a horse to sleep."

They both smiled at that for a moment, but Artemis was in a melancholy mood.

"This adventure was different, Holly. Usually someone wins, and we are better off at the end. But this time so many people died—innocents—and no one has benefited. And all for love. I can’t even think of Turnball as a villain—all he wanted was his wife back."

Holly squeezed Artemis’s fingers. "Things would have been a lot worse without us around. No1 is alive, thanks to you, not to mention everyone on this hospital ship. And as soon as we have you back to your old self, we can get working on saving the world with your Ice Cube."

"Good. That’s still my priority, though I might want to renegotiate my terms a little."

"Hmm. I thought you might."

Artemis took a sip of water from a cup on his locker. "I don’t want to go back to being me completely. My old self is what brought on Atlantis Complex in the first place."

"You did some bad things, Artemis. But you wouldn’t do them again. Let them go."

"Really? You can just let things go?"

"It’s not that easy, but you can do it with our help, if it’s what you really want."

Artemis rolled his eyes. "Potions and therapy, heaven help me."

"Dr. Argon is a bit of a fame hound, but he’s good. The best. Also, I’m sure No1 can give you a magical detox, get the last of those sparks out of your system."

"That sounds painful."

"Maybe. But you’ll have friends around you. Good friends."

Artemis sat up on the pillows. "I know. Where’s Mulch?"

"Where do you think?"

"I think he’s in the galley. Possibly inside one of the refrigerators."

"I think you’re probably right."

"How about Juliet?"

Holly’s sigh was both affectionate and frustrated. "She’s organized a wrestling match between herself and a jumbo pixie who passed a comment about her ponytail. I am currently pretending I don’t know anything about it. I should go and break it up soon."

"I pity the pixie," said Artemis. "And how about Butler? Do you think he can ever trust me again?"

"I think he already does."

"I need to speak to him."

Holly glanced toward the corridor. "You’d better give it a minute. He’s making a delicate phone call."

Artemis could guess who he was calling. He would have to make a similar call himself soon.

"So," he said, trying to sound more lighthearted than he actually felt, with the Atlantis Complex bubbling at the base of his temporal lobe.

Arrange this, it said.

Count that.

Beware four. Four is death.

"I hear that you were on a date with Trouble Kelp. Are you two planning on building a bivouac any time soon?"

Butler thought he might be developing claustrophobia. It definitely seemed as though the walls were closing in. It didn’t help that the corridor he was crouched in was built for people half his size. The only place he could stand up properly was the gymnasium, and that wasn’t really the place to make a private call, as his baby sister was probably beating the stuffing out of a jumbo pixie in there at the moment, playing it up for the assembled crowd of patients and medics, who would soon adore the Jade Princess.

Butler slid down the wall into a sitting position and held out Artemis’s phone.

Maybe there’s no network, he thought hopefully.

But there was. Four bars. Artemis had built his phone to access all available networks, including military and fairy. A person would have to be on the moon before Artemis’s phone would fail.

Okay. Stop putting it off. Make the call.

Butler scrolled through the contacts and selected Angeline Fowl’s mobile phone. It took a few seconds to connect, as the call had to go through Haven up to a satellite and back to Ireland, and when it did ring, the tone was the fairy triple beep.

Maybe she’s asleep.

But Angeline picked up on the second ring.

"Artemis? Where are you? Why haven’t you called?"

"No, Mrs. Fowl. It’s Butler."

Angeline realized that Butler was calling her on Artemis’s phone and naturally jumped to the worst possible conclusion. "Oh my God! He’s dead, isn’t he? I should never have let him go."

"No, no. Artemis is fine," said Butler hurriedly. "Not a mark on him."

Angeline was crying into the phone. "Thank goodness. I would blame myself. A fifteen-year-old, off to save the world, with fairies. What was I thinking? That’s it now. Finished. A normal life from now on."

I can’t even remember normal, thought Butler.

"Can I speak to him?"

Here we go.

"Not at the moment. He’s . . . eh . . . sedated."

"Sedated! You said he wasn’t hurt, Butler. You just said there wasn’t a mark on him."

Butler winced. "There isn’t a mark on him. Not on the outside."

Butler swore he could hear Angeline Fowl fuming. "What is that supposed to mean? Are you turning metaphorical in your dotage, man? Is Artemis hurt or not?"

Butler would have much preferred to be facing down a SWAT team than delivering this news, so he chose his words carefully. "Artemis has developed a condition, a mental condition. It’s a little like OCD."

"Oh no," said Angeline, and for a moment Butler thought she had dropped the phone, then he heard her breathing, fast and shallow.

"It can be controled," he said. "We’re taking him to a clinic right now. The best clinic the fairies have. He is in absolutely no danger."

"I want to see him."

"You will. They’re sending someone for you." This wasn’t actually the case, but Butler vowed that it would be, seconds after he hung up the phone. "What about the twins?"

"The nanny can sleep over. Artemis’s father is in São Paolo at a summit. I’ll have to tell him everything."

"No," said Butler quickly. "Don’t make that decision now. Talk to Artemis first."

"W-will he know me?"

"Of course he will," Butler replied.

"Very well, Butler. I’m going to pack a bag now. Tell the fairies to call when they’re ten minutes away."

"I will do."

"And, Butler?"

"Yes, Mrs. Fowl?"

"Look after my boy until I get there. Family is everything, you know that."

"I do, Mrs. Fowl. I will."

The connection was severed, and Angeline Fowl’s picture disappeared from the little screen.

Family is everything, thought Butler. If you’re lucky.

Mulch stuck his head around the door, beard dripping with some congealing liquid that seemed to have whole turnips trapped in it. His forehead was covered in bright blue burn gel.

"Hey, bodyguard. You better get down to the gymnasium. This jumbo pixie guy is killing your sister."

"Really?" said Butler, unconvinced.

"Really. Juliet just does not seem to be herself. She can’t put two moves together. It’s pathetic, really. Everyone is betting against her."

"I see," said Butler, straightening as much as he could in the cramped surroundings.

Mulch held the door. "It’s going to make things really interesting when you show up to help."

Butler grinned. "I’m not coming to help. I just want to be there when she stops faking."

"Ah," said Mulch, comprehension dawning on his face. "So I should switch my bet to Juliet?"

"You certainly should," said Butler, and lumbered down the corridor, stepping around a pool of turnip soup.







PROLOGUE




How does one describe Artemis Fowl? Various psychiatrists have tried and failed. The main problem is Artemis’s own intelligence. He bamboozles every test thrown at him. He has puzzled the greatest medical minds, and sent many of them gibbering to their own hospitals.

There is no doubt that Artemis is a child prodigy. But why does someone of such brilliance dedicate himself to criminal activities? This is a question that can be answered by only one person. And he delights in not talking.

Perhaps the best way to create an accurate picture of Artemis is to tell the by now famous account of his first villainous venture. I have put together this report from firsthand interviews with the victims, and as the tale unfolds, you will realize that this was not easy.

The story began several years ago at the dawn of the twenty-first century. Artemis Fowl had devised a plan to restore his family’s fortune. A plan that could topple civilizations and plunge the planet into a cross-species war.

He was twelve years old at the time. . . .





CHAPTER 1

THE BOOK




Ho Chi Minh City in the summer. Sweltering by anyone’s standards. Needless to say, Artemis Fowl would not have been willing to put up with such discomfort if something extremely important had not been at stake. Important to the plan.

Sun did not suit Artemis. He did not look well in it. Long hours indoors in front of a computer screen had bleached the glow from his skin. He was white as a vampire and almost as testy in the light of day.

"I hope this isn’t another wild-goose chase, Butler," he said, his voice soft and clipped. "Especially after Cairo."

It was a gentle rebuke. They had traveled to Egypt on the word of Butler’s informant.

"No, sir. I’m certain this time. Nguyen is a good man."

"Hmm," droned Artemis, unconvinced.

Passersby would have been amazed to hear the large Eurasian man refer to the boy as sir. This was, after all, the third millennium. But this was no ordinary relationship, and these were no ordinary tourists.

They were sitting outside a curbside cafe on Dong Khai Street, watching the local teenagers circle the square on mopeds.

Nguyen was late, and the pathetic patch of shade provided by the umbrella was doing little to improve Artemis’s mood. But this was just his daily pessimism. Beneath the sulk was a spark of hope. Could this trip actually yield results? Would they find the Book? It was too much to hope for.

A waiter scurried to their table.

"More tea, sirs?" he asked, head bobbing furiously.

Artemis sighed. "Spare me the theatrics, and sit down."

The waiter turned instinctively to Butler, who was after all, the adult.

"But, sir, I am the waiter."

Artemis tapped the table for attention.

"You are wearing handmade loafers, a silk shirt, and three gold signet rings. Your English has a tinge of Oxford about it, and your nails have the soft sheen of the recently manicured. You are not a waiter. You are our contact Nguyen Xuan, and you have adopted this pathetic disguise to discreetly check for weaponry."

Nguyen’s shoulders sagged. "It is true. Amazing."

"Hardly. A ragged apron does not a waiter make."

Nguyen sat, pouring some mint tea into a tiny china cup.

"Let me fill you in on the weapons status," continued Artemis. "I am unarmed. But Butler here, my . . . ah . . . butler, has a Sig Sauer in his shoulder holster, two shrike-throwing knives in his boots, a derringer two-shot up his sleeve, garrotte wire in his watch, and three stun grenades concealed in various pockets. Anything else, Butler?"

"The cosh, sir."

"Oh, yes. A good old ball-bearing cosh stuffed down his shirt."

Nguyen brought the cup trembling to his lips.

"Don’t be alarmed, Mister Xuan." Artemis smiled. "The weapons will not be used on you."

Nguyen didn’t seem reassured.

"No," continued Artemis. "Butler could kill you a hundred different ways without the use of his weapons. Though I’m sure one would be quite sufficient."

Nguyen was by now thoroughly spooked. Artemis generally had that effect on people. A pale adolescent speaking with the authority and vocabulary of a powerful adult. Nguyen had heard the name Fowl before—who hadn’t in the international underworld?—but he’d assumed he’d be dealing with Artemis senior, not this boy. Though the word "boy" hardly seemed to do this gaunt individual justice. And the giant, Butler. It was obvious that he could snap a man’s backbone like a twig with those mammoth hands. Nguyen was starting to think that no amount of money was worth another minute in this strange company.

"And now to business," said Artemis, placing a micro recorder on the table. "You answered our Web advertisement."

Nguyen nodded, suddenly praying that his information was accurate.

"Yes, Mister . . . Master Fowl. What you’re looking for . . . I know where it is."

"Really? And am I supposed to take your word for this? You could be walking me straight into an ambush. My family is not without enemies."

Butler snatched a mosquito out of the air beside his employer’s ear.

"No, no," said Nguyen, reaching for his wallet."Here, look."

Artemis studied the Polaroid. He willed his heart to maintain a calm beat. It seemed promising, but anything could be faked these days with a PC and flatbed scanner. The picture showed a hand reaching from layered shadows. A mottled green hand.

"Hmm," he murmured. "Explain."

"This woman. She is a healer, near Tu Do Street. She works in exchange for rice wine. All the time, drunk."

Artemis nodded. It made sense. The drinking. One of the few consistent facts his research had unearthed. He stood, pulling the creases from his white polo shirt.

"Very well. Lead on, Mister Xuan."

Nguyen wiped the sweat from his stringy mustache.

"Information only. That was the agreement. I don’t want any curses on my head."

Butler expertly gripped the informant behind the neck.

"I’m sorry, Mister Xuan, but the time when you had a choice in matters is long past."

Butler steered the protesting Vietnamese man to the rented four-wheel drive. It was hardly necessary on the flat streets of Ho Chi Minh City, or Saigon, as the locals still called it, but Artemis preferred to be as insulated from civilians as possible.

The Jeep inched forward at a painfully slow rate, made all the more excruciating by the anticipation building in Artemis’s chest. He could suppress it no longer. Could they at last be at the end of their quest? After six false alarms across three continents, could this wine-sodden healer be the gold at the end of the rainbow? Artemis almost chuckled. Gold at the end of the rainbow. He’d made a joke. Now there’s something that didn’t happen every day.

The mopeds parted like fish in a giant shoal. There seemed to be no end to the crowds. Even the alleyways were full to bursting with vendors and hagglers. Cooks dropped fish heads into woks of hissing oil, and urchins threaded their way underfoot searching for unguarded valuables. Others sat in the shade, wearing out their thumbs on Game Boys.

Nguyen was sweating right through his khaki top. It wasn’t the humidity, he was used to that. It was this whole cursed situation. He should’ve known better than to mix magic and crime. He made a silent promise that if he got out of this, he would change his ways. No more answering shady Internet requests, and certainly no more consorting with the sons of European crime lords.

The Jeep could go only so far. Eventually the side streets grew too narrow for the four-wheel drive. Artemis turned to Nguyen. "It seems we must proceed on foot, Mister Xuan. Run if you like, but expect a sharp and fatal pain between your shoulder blades."

Nguyen glanced into Butler’s eyes. They were a deep blue, almost black. There was no mercy in those eyes. "Don’t worry," he said. "I won’t run."

They climbed down from the vehicle. A thousand suspicious eyes followed their progress along the steaming alley. An unfortunate pickpocket attempted to steal Butler’s wallet. The manservant broke the man’s fingers without looking down. They were given a wide berth after that.

The alley narrowed to a rutted lane. Sewage and drainpipes fed directly on to the muddy surface. Cripples and beggars huddled on rice-mat islands. Most of the residents of this lane had nothing to spare, with the exception of three.

"Well?" demanded Artemis. "Where is she?"

Nguyen jabbed a finger toward a black triangle beneath a rusted fire escape.

"There. Under there. She never comes out. Even to buy rice spirits she sends a runner. Now, can I go?"

Artemis didn’t bother answering. Instead he picked his way across the puddled lane to the lee of the fire escape. He could discern furtive movements in the shadows.

"Butler, could you hand me the goggles?"

Butler plucked a set of night-vision glasses from his belt and placed them in Artemis’s outstretched hand. The focus motor buzzed to suit the light.

Artemis fixed the glasses to his face. Everything became radioactive green. Taking a deep breath he turned his gaze to the squirming shadows. Something squatted on a raffia mat, shifting uneasily in the almost nonexistent light. Artemis fine-tuned the focus. The figure was small, abnormally so, and wrapped in a filthy shawl. Empty spirit jugs were half buried in the mud around her. One forearm poked from the material. It seemed green. But then, so did everything else.

"Madam," he said. "I have a proposition for you."

The figure’s head wobbled sleepily.

"Wine," she rasped, her voice like nails on a school board. "Wine, English."

Artemis smiled. The gift of tongues, check. Aversion to light, check.

"Irish, actually. Now, about my proposition?"

The healer shook a bony finger craftily. "Wine first. Then talk."

"Butler?"

The bodyguard reached into a pocket, and drew out a half pint of the finest Irish whiskey. Artemis took the bottle and held it teasingly beyond the shadows. He barely had time to remove his goggles when the clawlike hand darted from the gloom to snatch the whiskey. A mottled green hand. There was no doubt.

Artemis swallowed a triumphant grin.

"Pay our friend, Butler. In full. Remember, Mister Xuan, this is between us. You don’t want Butler to come back, do you?"

"No, no, Master Fowl. My lips are sealed."

"They had better be. Or Butler will seal them permanently."

Nguyen skipped off down the alley, so relieved to be alive that he didn’t even bother counting the sheaf of U.S. currency. Most unlike him. In any event, it was all there. All twenty thousand dollars. Not bad for half an hour’s work.

Artemis turned back to the healer.

"Now, madam, you have something that I want."

The healer’s tongue caught a drop of alcohol at the corner of her mouth.

"Yes, Irish. Sore head. Bad tooth. I heal."

Artemis replaced the night-vision goggles and squatted to her level.

"I am perfectly healthy, madam, apart from a slight dust-mite allergy, and I don’t think even you can do anything about that. No. What I want from you is your Book."

The hag froze. Bright eyes glinted from beneath the shawl.

"Book?" she said cautiously. "I don’t know about no book. I am healer. You want book, go to library."

Artemis sighed with exaggerated patience. "You are no healer. You are a sprite, p’shóg, fairy, ka-dalun. Whichever language you prefer to use. And I want your Book."

For a long moment, the creature said nothing, then she threw back the shawl from her forehead. In the green glow of the night-vision goggles, her features leaped at Artemis like a Halloween mask. The fairy’s nose was long and hooked under two slitted golden eyes. Her ears were pointed, and the alcohol addiction had melted her skin like putty.

"If you know about the Book, human," she said slowly, fighting the numbing effects of the whiskey, "then you know about the magic I have in my fist. I can kill you with a snap of my fingers!"

Artemis shrugged. "I think not. Look at you. You are near dead. The rice wine has dulled your senses. Reduced to healing warts. Pathetic. I am here to save you, in return for the Book."

"What could a human want with our Book?"

"That is no concern of yours. All you need to know are your options."

The sprite’s pointed ears quivered. "Options?"

"One, you refuse to give us the Book and we go home, leaving you to rot in this sewer."

"Yes," said the fairy. "I choose this option."

"Ah, no. Don’t be so eager. If we leave without the Book, you will be dead in a day."

"A day! A day!" the healer laughed. "I will outlive you by a century. Even fairies tethered to the human realm can survive the ages."

"Not with half a pint of holy water inside them," said Artemis, tapping the now empty whiskey bottle.

The fairy blanched, then screamed, a high keening horrible sound.

"Holy water! You have murdered me, human."

"True," admitted Artemis. "It should start to burn any minute now."

The fairy poked her stomach tentatively. "The second option?"

"Listening now, are we? Very well then. Option two. You give me the Book for thirty minutes only. Then I return your magic to you."

The sprite’s jaw dropped. "Return my magic? Not possible."

"Oh, but it is. I have in my possession two ampoules.

One, a vial of spring water from the fairy well sixty meters below the ring of Tara—possibly the most magical place on earth. This will counteract the holy water."

"And the other?"

"The other is a little shot of man-made magic. A virus that feeds on alcohol, mixed with a growth agent. It will flush every drop of rice wine from your body, remove the dependence, and even bolster your failing liver. It’ll be messy, but after a day you’ll be zipping around as though you were a thousand years old again."

The sprite licked her lips. To be able to rejoin the People? Tempting.

"How do I know to trust you, human? You have tricked me once already."

"Good point. Here’s the deal. I give you the water on faith. Then, after I’ve had a look at the Book, you get the booster. Take it or leave it."

The fairy considered. The pain was already curling around her abdomen. She thrust out her wrist.

"I’ll take it."

"I thought you might. Butler?"

The giant manservant unwrapped a soft Velcroed case containing a syringe gun and two vials. He loaded the clear one, shooting it into the sprite’s clammy arm. The fairy stiffened momentarily, and then relaxed.

"Strong magic," she breathed.

"Yes. But not as strong as your own will be when I give you the second injection. Now, the Book."

The sprite reached into the folds of her filthy robe, rummaging for an age. Artemis held his breath. This was it. Soon the Fowls would be great again. A new empire would rise, with Artemis Fowl the Second at its head.

The fairy woman withdrew a closed fist.

"No use to you anyway. Written in the old tongue."

Artemis nodded, not trusting himself to speak.

She opened her knobbly fingers. Lying in her palm was a tiny golden volume the size of a matchbox.

"Here, human. Thirty of your minutes. No more."

Butler took the tiny tome reverentially. The bodyguard activated a compact digital camera and began photographing each wafer-thin page of the Book. The process took several minutes. When he was finished, the entire volume was stored on the camera’s chip. Artemis preferred not to take chances with information. Airport security equipment had been known to wipe many a vital disk. So he instructed his aide to transfer the file to his portable phone, and from there e-mail it to Fowl Manor in Dublin. Before the thirty minutes were up, the file containing every symbol in the Fairy Book was sitting safely in the Fowl server.

Artemis returned the tiny volume to its owner.

"Nice doing business with you."

The sprite lurched to her knees."The other potion, human?"

Artemis smiled. "Oh yes, the restoring booster. I suppose I did promise."

"Yes. Human promised."

"Very well. But before we administer it, I must warn you that purging is not pleasant. You’re not going to enjoy this one bit."

The fairy gestured around her at the squalid filth. "You think I enjoy this? I want to fly again."

Butler loaded the second vial, shooting this one straight into the carotid artery.

The sprite immediately collapsed on the mat, her entire frame quivering violently.

"Time to leave," commented Artemis. "A hundred years of alcohol leaving a body by any means possible is not a pretty sight."

The Butlers had been serving the Fowls for centuries. It had always been that way. Indeed, there were several eminent linguists of the opinion that this was how the common noun had originated. The first record of this unusual arrangement was when Virgil Butler had been contracted as servant, bodyguard, and cook to Lord Hugo de Fol´e for one of the first great Norman crusades.

At the age of ten, Butler children were sent to a private training center in Israel, where they were taught the specialized skills necessary to guard the latest in the Fowl line. These skills included Cordon Bleu cooking, marksmanship, a customized blend of martial arts, emergency medicine, and information technology. If, at the end of their training, there was not a Fowl to guard, then the Butlers were eagerly snapped up as bodyguards for various royal personages, generally in Monaco or Saudi Arabia.

Once a Fowl and a Butler were put together, they were paired for life. It was a demanding job, and lonely, but the rewards were handsome if you survived to enjoy them. If not, then your family received a six-figure settlement plus a monthly pension.

The current Butler had been guarding young Master Artemis for twelve years, since the moment of his birth. And, though they adhered to the age-old formalities, they were much more than master and servant. Artemis was the closest thing Butler had to a friend, and Butler was the closest Artemis had to a father, albeit one who obeyed orders.

Butler held his tongue until they were aboard the Heathrow connection from Bangkok, then he had to ask.

"Artemis?"

Artemis looked up from the screen of his PowerBook. He was getting a head start on the translation.

"Yes?"

"The sprite. Why didn’t we simply keep the Book and leave her to die?"

"A corpse is evidence, Butler. My way, the People will have no reason to be suspicious."

"But the sprite?"

"I hardly think she will confess to showing humans the Book. In any case, I mixed a slight amnesiac into her second injection. When she finally wakes up, the last week will be a blur."

Butler nodded appreciatively. Always two steps ahead, that was Master Artemis. People said he was a chip off the old block. They were wrong. Master Artemis was a brand-new block, the likes of which had never been seen before.

Doubts assuaged, Butler returned to his copy of Guns & Ammo, leaving his employer to unravel the secrets of the universe.





CHAPTER 2

TRANSLATION




By now, you must have guessed just how far Artemis Fowl was prepared to go in order to achieve his goal. But what exactly was this goal? What outlandish scheme would involve the blackmailing of an alcohol-addicted sprite? The answer was gold.

Artemis’s search had begun two years previously when he first became interested in surfing the Internet. He quickly found the more arcane sites: alien abduction, UFO sightings, and the supernatural. But most specifically the existence of the People.

Trawling through gigabytes of data, he found hundreds of references to fairies from nearly every country in the world. Each civilization had its own term for the People, but they were undoubtedly members of the same hidden family. Several stories mentioned a Book carried by each fairy. It was their bible, containing, as it allegedly did, the history of their race and the commandments that governed their extended lives. Of course, this book was written in Gnommish, the fairy language, and would be of no use to any human.

Artemis believed that with today’s technology the Book could be translated. And with this translation you could begin to exploit a whole new group of creatures.

Know thine enemy was Artemis’s motto, so he immersed himself in the lore of the People until he had compiled a huge database on their characteristics. But it wasn’t enough. So Artemis put out a call on the Web: Irish businessman will pay large amount of U.S. dollars to meet a fairy, sprite, leprechaun, pixie. The responses had been mostly fraudulent, but Ho Chi Minh City had finally paid off.

Artemis was perhaps the only person alive who could take full advantage of his recent acquisition. He still retained a childlike belief in magic, tempered by an adult determination to exploit it. If there was anybody capable of relieving the fairies of some of their magical gold, it was Artemis Fowl the Second.

It was early morning before they reached Fowl Manor. Artemis was anxious to bring up the file on his computer, but first he decided to call in on Mother.

Angeline Fowl was bedridden. She had been since her husband’s disappearance. Nervous tension, the physicians said. Nothing for it but rest and sleeping pills. That was almost a year ago.

Butler’s little sister, Juliet, was sitting at the foot of the stairs. Her gaze was boring a hole in the wall. Even the glitter mascara couldn’t soften her expression. Artemis had seen that look already, just before Juliet had suplexed a particularly impudent pizza boy. The suplex, Artemis gathered, was a wrestling move. An unusual obsession for a teenage girl. But then again she was, after all, a Butler.

"Problems, Juliet?"

Juliet straightened hurriedly. "My own fault, Artemis. Apparently I left a gap in the curtains. Mrs. Fowl couldn’t sleep."

"Hmm," muttered Artemis, scaling the oak staircase slowly.

He worried about his mother’s condition. She hadn’t seen the light of day in a long time now. Then again, should she miraculously recover, emerging revitalized from her bedchamber, it would signal the end of Artemis’s own extraordinary freedom. It would be back off to school, and no more spearheading criminal enterprises for you, my boy.

He knocked gently on the arched double doors.

"Mother? Are you awake?"

Something smashed against the other side of the door. It sounded expensive.

"Of course I’m awake! How can I sleep in this blinding glare?"

Artemis ventured inside. An antique four-poster bed threw shadowy spires in the darkness, and a pale sliver of light poked through a gap in the velvet curtains. Angeline Fowl sat hunched on the bed, her pale limbs glowing white in the gloom.

"Artemis, darling. Where have you been?"

Artemis sighed. She recognized him. That was a good sign.

"School trip, Mother. Skiing in Austria."

"Ah, skiing," crooned Angeline. "How I miss it. Maybe when your father returns."

Artemis felt a lump in his throat. Most uncharacteristic.

"Yes. Perhaps when Father returns."

"Darling, could you close those wretched curtains? The light is intolerable."

"Of course, Mother."

Artemis felt his way across the room, wary of the low-level clothes chests scattered around the floor. Finally his fingers curled around the velvet drapes. For a moment he was tempted to throw them wide open, then he sighed and closed the gap.

"Thank you, darling. By the way, we really have to get rid of that maid. She is good for absolutely nothing."

Artemis held his tongue. Juliet had been a hardworking and loyal member of the Fowl household for the past three years. Time to use Mother’s absentmindedness to his advantage.

"You’re right of course, Mother. I’ve been meaning to do it for some time. Butler has a sister I believe would be perfect for the position. I think I’ve mentioned her. Juliet?"

Angeline frowned. "Juliet? Yes, the name does seem familiar. Well, anyone would be better than that silly girl we have now. When can she start?"

"Straight away. I’ll have Butler fetch her from the lodge."

"You’re a good boy, Artemis. Now, give Mummy a hug."

Artemis stepped into the shadowy folds of his mother’s robe. She smelled perfumed, like petals in water. But her arms were cold and weak.

"Oh, darling," she whispered, and the sound sent goose bumps popping down Artemis’s neck. "I hear things. At night. They crawl along the pillows and into my ears."

Artemis felt that lump in his throat again.

"Perhaps we should open the curtains, Mother."

"No," his mother sobbed, releasing him from her grasp. "No. Because then I could see them, too."

"Mother, please."

But it was no use. Angeline was gone. She crawled to the far corner of the bed, pulling the quilt under her chin.

"Send the new girl."

"Yes, Mother."

"Send her with cucumber slices and water."

"Yes, Mother."

Angeline glared at him with crafty eyes. "And stop calling me Mother. I don’t know who you are, but you’re certainly not my little Arty."

Artemis blinked back a few rebellious tears. "Of course. Sorry, Moth—Sorry."

"Hmmm. Don’t come back here again, or I’ll have my husband take care of you. He’s a very important man, you know."

"Very well, Mrs. Fowl. This is the last you’ll see of me."

"It had better be." Angeline froze suddenly. "Do you hear them?"

Artemis shook his head. "No. I don’t hear any—"

"They’re coming for me. They’re everywhere."

Angeline dived for cover beneath the bedclothes. Artemis could still hear her terrified sobs as he descended the marble staircase.

The Book was proving far more stubborn than Artemis had anticipated. It seemed to be almost actively resisting him. No matter which program he ran it through, the computer came up blank.

Artemis hard-copied every page, tacking them to the walls of his study. Sometimes it helped to have things on paper. The script was like nothing he’d seen before, and yet it was strangely familiar. Obviously a mixture of symbolic and character-based language, the text meandered around the page in no apparent order.

What the program needed was some frame of reference, some central point on which to build. He separated all the characters and ran comparisons with English, Chinese, Greek, Arabic, and with Cyrillic texts, even with Ogham. Nothing.

Moody with frustration, Artemis sent Juliet scurrying when she interrupted with sandwiches, and moved on to symbols. The most frequently recurring pictogram was a small male figure. Male, he presumed, though with the limited knowledge of the fairy anatomy he supposed it could be female. A thought struck him. Artemis opened the ancient languages file on his Power Translator and selected Egyptian.

At last. A hit. The male symbol was remarkably similar to the Anubis god representation on Tutankhamen’s inner-chamber hieroglyphics. This was consistent with his other findings. The first written human stories were about fairies, suggesting that their civilization predated man’s own. It would seem that the Egyptians had simply adapted an existing scripture to suit their needs.

There were other resemblances. But the characters were just dissimilar enough to slip through the computer’s net. This would have to be done manually. Each Gnommish figure had to be enlarged, printed, and then compared with the hieroglyphs.

Artemis felt the excitement of success thumping inside his rib cage. Almost every fairy pictogram or letter had an Egyptian counterpart. Most were universal, such as the sun or birds. But some seemed exclusively supernatural and had to be tailored to fit. The Anubis figure, for example, would make no sense as a dog god, so Artemis altered it to read king of the fairies.

By midnight, Artemis had successfully fed his findings into the Macintosh. All he had to do now was press Decode. He did so. What emerged was a long, intricate string of meaningless gibberish.

A normal child would have abandoned the task long since. The average adult would probably have been reduced to slapping the keyboard. But not Artemis. This book was testing him, and he would not allow it to win.

The letters were right, he was certain of it. It was just the order that was wrong. Rubbing the sleep from his eyes, Artemis glared at the pages again. Each segment was bordered by a solid line. This could represent paragraphs or chapters, but they were not meant to be read in the usual left to right, top to bottom fashion.

Artemis experimented. He tried the Arabic right to left and the Chinese columns. Nothing worked. Then he noticed that each page had one thing in common—a central section. The other pictograms were arranged around this pivotal area. So, a central starting point, perhaps. But where to go from there? Artemis scanned the pages for some other common factor. After several minutes he found it. There was on each page a tiny spearhead in the corner of one section. Could this be an arrow? A direction?

Go this way? So the theory would be, start in the middle then follow the arrow. Reading in spirals.

The computer program wasn’t built to handle something like this, so Artemis had to improvise. With a craft knife and ruler, he dissected the first page of the Book and reassembled it in the traditional Western languages order—left to right, parallel rows. Then he rescanned the page and fed it through the modified Egyptian translator.





The computer hummed and whirred, converting all the information to binary. Several times it stopped to ask for confirmation of a character or symbol. This happened less and less as the machine learned the new language. Eventually two words flashed on the screen: File converted.

Fingers shaking from exhaustion and excitement, Artemis clicked Print. A single page scrolled from the LaserWriter. It was in English now. Yes, there were mistakes, some fine-tuning needed, but it was perfectly legible, and, more important, perfectly understandable.

Fully aware that he was probably the first human in several thousand years to decode the magical words, Artemis switched on his desk light and began to read.


THE BOOKE OF THE PEOPLE. BEING INSTRUCTIONS TO OUR MAGICKS AND LIFE RULES.



Carry me always, carry me well. I am thy teacher of herb and spell. I am thy link to power arcane. Forget me and thy magick shall wane.



Ten times ten commandments there be. They will answer every mystery. Cures, curses, alchemy. These secrets shall be thine, through me.



But, Fairy, remember this above all. I am not for those in mud that crawl. And forever doomed shall be the one, Who betrays my secrets one by one.




Artemis could hear the blood pumping in his ears. He had them. They would be as ants beneath his feet. Their every secret would be laid bare by technology. Suddenly the exhaustion claimed him and he sank back in his chair. There was so much yet to complete. Forty-three pages to be translated for a start.

He pressed the intercom button that linked him to speakers all over the house. "Butler. Get Juliet and come up here. There are some jigsaws I need you to assemble."

Perhaps a little family history would be useful at this point.

The Fowls were, indeed, legendary criminals. For generations they had skirmished on the wrong side of the law, hoarding enough funds to become legitimate. Of course, once they were legitimate they found it not to their liking, and returned almost immediately to crime.

It was Artemis the First, our subject’s father, who had thrown the family fortune into jeopardy. With the breakup of communist Russia, Artemis Senior had decided to invest a huge chunk of the Fowl fortune in establishing new shipping lines to the vast continent. New consumers, he reasoned, would need new consumer goods. The Russian Mafia did not take too kindly to a Westerner muscling in on their market, and so decided to send a little message. This message took the form of a stolen missile launched at the Fowl Star on her way past Murmansk. Artemis Senior was on board the ship, along with Butler’s uncle and 250,000 cans of cola. It was quite an explosion.

The Fowls were not left destitute, far from it. But billionaire status was no longer theirs. Artemis the Second vowed to remedy this. He would restore the family fortune. And he would do it in his own unique fashion.

Once the Book was translated, Artemis could begin planning in earnest. He already knew what the ultimate goal was; now he could figure out how to achieve it.

Gold, of course, was the objective. The acquisition of gold. It seemed that the People were almost as fond of the precious metal as humans. Each fairy had its own cache, but not for much longer if Artemis had his way. There would be at least one of the fairy folk wandering around with empty pockets by the time he’d finished.

After eighteen solid hours of sleep and a light continental breakfast, Artemis climbed to the study that he had inherited from his father. It was a traditional enough room—dark oak and floor-to-ceiling shelving— but Artemis had jammed it with the latest computer technology. A series of networked Apple Macs whirred from various corners of the room. One was running CNN’s Web site through a DAT projector, throwing oversized current-affairs images against the back wall.

Butler was there already, firing up the hard drives.

"Shut them all down, except the Book. I need quiet for this."

The manservant started. The CNN site had been running for almost a year. Artemis was convinced that news of his father’s rescue would come from there. Shutting it down meant that he was finally letting go.

"All of them?"

Artemis glanced at the back wall for a moment. "Yes," he said finally. "All of them."

Butler took the liberty of patting his employer gently on the shoulder, just once, before returning to work. Artemis cracked his knuckles. Time to do what he did best—plot dastardly acts.





CHAPTER 3

HOLLY




Holly Short was lying in bed, silently fuming. Nothing unusual about this. Leprechauns in general were not known for their geniality. But Holly was in an exceptionally bad mood, even for a fairy. Technically she was an elf, fairy being a general term. She was a leprechaun too, but that was just a job.

Perhaps a description would be more helpful than a lecture on fairy genealogy. Holly Short had nut-brown skin, cropped auburn hair, and hazel eyes. Her nose had a hook, and her mouth was plump and cherubic, which was appropriate considering Cupid was her great-grandfather. Her mother was a European elf with a fiery temper and willowy figure. Holly, too, had a slim frame with long tapered fingers, perfect for wrapping around a buzz baton. Her ears, of course, were pointed. At exactly three feet in height, Holly was only a centimeter below the fairy average, but even one centimeter can make an awful lot of difference when you don’t have many to spare.

Commander Root was the cause of Holly’s distress. Root had been on Holly’s case since day one. The commander had decided to take offense at the fact that the first female officer in Recon’s history had been assigned to his squad. Recon was a notoriously dangerous posting with a high fatality rate, and Root didn’t think it was any place for a girlie. Well, he was just going to have to get used to the idea, because Holly Short had no intention of quitting for him or anybody else.

Though she’d never admit it, another possible cause for Holly’s irritability was the Ritual. She’d been meaning to perform it for several moons now, but somehow there just never seemed to be time. And if Root found out she was running low on magic, she’d be transferred to Traffic for sure.

Holly rolled off her futon and stumbled into the shower. That was one advantage of living near the earth’s core—the water was always hot. No natural light, of course, but that was a small price to pay for privacy. Underground. The last human-free zone. There was nothing like coming home after a long day on the job, switching off your shield, and sinking into a bubbling slime pool. Bliss.

The fairy suited up, zipping the dull-green jumpsuit up to her chin and strapping on her helmet. LEPrecon uniforms were stylish these days. Not like that top-o’-the-morning costume the force had to wear back in the old days. Buckled shoes and knickerbockers! Honestly. No wonder leprechauns were such ridiculous figures in human folklore. Still, probably better that way. If the Mud People knew that the word "leprechaun" actually originated from LEPrecon, an elite branch of the Lower Elements Police, they’d probably take steps to stamp them out. Better to stay inconspicuous and let the humans have their stereotypes.

With the moon already rising on the surface, there was no time for a proper breakfast. Holly grabbed the remains of a nettle smoothie from the cooler and drank it in the tunnels. As usual there was chaos in the main thoroughfare. Airborne sprites jammed the avenue like stones in a bottle. The gnomes weren’t helping either, lumbering along with their big swinging behinds blocking two lanes. Swear toads infested every damp patch, cursing like sailors. That particular breed began as a joke, but had multiplied into an epidemic. Someone lost their wand over that one.

Holly battled through the crowds to the police station. There was already a riot outside Spud’s Spud Emporium. LEP Corporal Newt was trying to sort it out. Good luck to him. Nightmare. At least Holly got the chance to work above ground.

The LEP station doors were crammed with protesters. The goblin-dwarf turf war had flared up again, and every morning hordes of angry parents showed up demanding the release of their innocent offspring. Holly snorted. If there actually was an innocent goblin, Holly Short had yet to meet him. They were clogging up the cells now, howling gang chants and hurling fireballs at each other.

Holly shouldered her way into the throng. "Coming through," she grunted. "Police business."

They were on her like flies on a stink worm.

"My Grumpo is innocent!"

"Police brutality!"

"Officer, could you take my baby in his blankie? He can’t sleep without it."

Holly set her visor to reflect, and ignored them all. Once upon a time the uniform would have earned you some respect. Not anymore. Now you were a target. "Excuse me, officer, but I seem to have misplaced my jar of warts." "Pardon me, young elf, but my cat’s climbed a stalactite." Or "If you have a minute, Captain, could you tell me how to get to the Fountain of Youth?" Holly shuddered. Tourists. She had troubles of her own. More than she knew, as she was about to find out.

In the station lobby, a kleptomaniac dwarf was busy picking the pockets of everyone else in the booking line, including the officer he was handcuffed to. Holly gave him a swipe in the backside with her buzz baton. The electric charge singed the seat of his leather pants.

"Whatcha doing there, Mulch?"

Mulch started, contraband dropping from his sleeves.

"Officer Short," he whined, his face a mask of regret. "I can’t help myself. It’s my nature."

"I know that, Mulch. And it’s our nature to throw you in a cell for a couple of centuries."

She winked at the dwarf’s arresting officer.

"Nice to see you’re staying alert."

The elf blushed, kneeling to pick up his wallet and badge.

Holly forged past Root’s office, hoping she would make it to her cubicle before . . .

"SHORT! GET IN HERE!"

Holly sighed. Ah well. Here we go again.

Stowing her helmet under her arm, Holly smoothed the creases from her uniform and stepped into Commander Root’s office.

Root’s face was purple with rage. This was more or less his general state of existence, a fact that had earned him the nickname "Beetroot." There was an office pool running on how long he had before his heart exploded. The smart money was on half a century, at the outside.

Commander Root was tapping the moonometer on his wrist. "Well?" he demanded. "What time do you call this?"

Holly could feel her own face coloring. She was barely a minute late. There were at least a dozen officers on this shift who hadn’t even reported in yet. But Root always singled her out for persecution.

"The thoroughfare," she mumbled lamely. "There were four lanes down."

"Don’t insult me with your excuses!" roared the commander. "You know what the city center is like! Get up a few minutes earlier!"

It was true, she did know what Haven was like. Holly Short was a city elf born and bred. Since the humans had begun experimenting with mineral drilling, more and more fairies had been driven out of the shallow forts and into the depth and security of Haven City. The metropolis was overcrowded and underserviced. And now there was a lobby to allow automobiles in the pedestrianized city center. As if the place wasn’t smelly enough already with all those country gnomes lumbering around the place.

Root was right. She should get up a bit earlier. But she wouldn’t. Not until everybody else was forced to.

"I know what you’re thinking," said Root. "Why am I picking on you every day? Why don’t I ever bawl out those other layabouts?"

Holly said nothing, but agreement was written all over her face.

"I’ll tell you why, shall I?"

Holly risked a nod.

"It’s because you’re a girl."

Holly felt her fingers curl into fists. She knew it!

"But not for the reasons you think," continued Root. "You are the first girl in Recon. Ever. You are a test case.

A beacon. There are a million fairies out there watching your every move. There are a lot of hopes riding on you. But there is a lot of prejudice against you too. The future of law enforcement is in your hands. And at the moment, I’d say it was a little heavy."

Holly blinked. Root had never said anything like this before. Usually it was just "Fix your helmet," "Stand up straight," blah blah blah.

"You have to be the best you can be, Short, and that has to be better than anybody else." Root sighed, sinking into his swivel chair. "I don’t know, Holly. Ever since that Hamburg incident . . ."

Holly winced. The Hamburg incident had been a total disaster. One of her perps had skipped out to the surface and tried to bargain with the Mud People for asylum. Root had to stop time, call in the Retrieval Squad, and do four memory wipes. A lot of police time wasted. All her fault.

The commander took a form from his desk. "It’s no use. I’ve made up my mind. I’m putting you on Traffic and bringing in Corporal Frond."

"Frond!" exploded Holly. "She’s a bimbo. An airhead. You can’t make her the test case!"

Root’s face turned an even deeper shade of purple.

"I can, and I will. Why shouldn’t I? You have never given me your best; either that or your best just isn’t good enough. Sorry Short, you had your chance. . . ."

The commander turned back to his paperwork. The meeting was over. Holly could only stand there, aghast. She’d blown it. The best career opportunity she was ever likely to get, and she’d tossed it in the gutter. One mistake and her future was past. It wasn’t fair. Holly felt an uncharacteristic anger take hold of her, but she swallowed it. This was no time to lose her temper.

"Commander Root, sir. I feel I deserve one more chance."

Root didn’t even look up from the paperwork. "And why’s that?"

Holly took a deep breath. "Because of my record, sir. It speaks for itself, apart from the Hamburg thing. Ten successful recons. Not a single memory wipe or time-stop, apart from . . ."

"The Hamburg thing," completed Root.

Holly took a chance. "If I were a male—one of your precious sprites—we wouldn’t even be having this conversation."

Root glanced up sharply. "Now, just a minute, Captain Short—"

He was interrupted by the bleeping of one of the phones on his desk. Then two, then three. A giant viewscreen crackled into life on the wall behind him.

Root jabbed the speaker button, putting all the callers on conference.

"Yes?"

"We’ve got a runner."

Root nodded. "Anything on Scopes?"

Scopes was the shop name for the shrouded trackers attached to American communications satellites.

"Yep," said caller two. "Big blip in Europe. Southern Italy. No shield."

Root cursed. An unshielded fairy could be seen by mortal eyes. That wasn’t so bad if the perp was humanoid.

"Classification?"

"Bad news, Commander," said the third caller. "We got us a rogue troll."

Root rubbed his eyes. Why did these things always happen on his watch? Holly could understand his frustration. Trolls were the meanest of the deep-tunnel creatures. They wandered the labyrinth, preying on anything unlucky enough to cross their path. Their tiny brains had no room for rules or restraint. Occasionally one found its way into the shaft of a pressure elevator. Usually the concentrated air current fried them, but sometimes one survived and was blasted to the surface. Driven crazy by pain and even the tiniest amount of light, they would generally proceed to destroy everything in their path.

Root shook his head rapidly, recovering himself.

"Okay, Captain Short. Looks like you get your chance. You’re running hot, I take it?"

"Yes, sir," lied Holly, all too aware that Root would suspend her immediately if he knew she’d neglected the Ritual.

"Good. Then sign yourself out a sidearm, and proceed to the target area."

Holly glanced at the view screen. Scopes were sending high-res shots of an Italian fortified town. A red dot was moving rapidly through the countryside toward the human population.

"Do a thorough reconnaissance and report in. Do not attempt a retrieval. Is that understood?"

"Yessir."

"We lost six men to troll attacks last quarter. Six men. That was belowground, in familiar territory."

"I understand, sir."

Root pursed his lips doubtfully.

"Do you understand, Short? Do you really?"

"I think so, sir."

"Have you ever seen what a troll can do to flesh and bone?"

"No, sir. Not up close."

"Good. Let’s not make today your first time."

"Understood."

Root glared at her. "I don’t know why it is, Captain Short, but whenever you start agreeing with me, I get decidedly nervous."

Root was right to be nervous. If he’d known how this straightforward Recon assignment was going to turn out, he would probably have retired then and there. Tonight, history was going to be made. And it wasn’t the discovery-of-radium, first-man-on-the-moon, happy kind of history. It was the Spanish Inquisition, here-comes-the-Hindenburg bad kind of history. Bad for humans and fairies. Bad for everyone.

Holly proceeded directly to the chutes. Her normally chatty mouth was a grim slash of determination. One chance, that was it. She would allow nothing to break her concentration.

There was the usual line of holiday visa hopefuls stretching to the corner of Elevator Plaza, but Holly bypassed it by waving her badge at the waiting line. A truculent gnome refused to yield.

"How come you LEP guys get to go topside? What’s so special about you?"

Holly breathed deeply through her nose. Courtesy at all times. "Police business, sir. Now, if you could just excuse me."

The gnome scratched his massive behind. "I hear you LEP guys make up your police business just to get a look at some moonlight. That’s what I hear."

Holly attempted an amused smile. What actually formed on her lips resembled a lemon-sucking grimace.

"Whoever told you that is an idiot . . . sir. Recon only ventures above ground when absolutely necessary."

The gnome frowned. Obviously he had made up the rumor himself, and suspected that Holly might have just called him an idiot. By the time he’d figured it out, she had skipped through the double doors.

Foaly was waiting for her in Ops. Foaly was a paranoid centaur, convinced that human intelligence agencies were monitoring his transport and surveillance network. To prevent them from reading his mind, he wore a tinfoil hat at all times.

He glanced up sharply when Holly entered through the pneumatic double doors.

"Anybody see you come in here?"

Holly thought about it.

"The FBI, CIA, NSA, DEA, MI6. Oh, and the EIB."

Foaly frowned. "The EIB?"

"Everyone in the building." Holly smirked.

Foaly rose from his swivel chair and clip-clopped over to her.

"Oh, you’re very funny, Short. A regular riot. I thought the Hamburg incident might have knocked some of the cockiness out of you. If I were you, I’d concentrate on the job in hand."

Holly composed herself. He was right.

"Okay, Foaly. Fill me in."

The centaur pointed to a live feed from the Eurosat, which was displayed on a large plasma screen.

"This red dot is the troll. He’s moving toward Martina Franca, a fortified town near the city of Brindisi. As far as we can tell, he stumbled into vent E7. It was on cooldown after a surface shot; that’s why the troll isn’t crispy barbecue right now."

Holly grimaced. Charming, she thought.

"We’ve been lucky in that our target has bumped into some food along the way. He chewed on a couple of cows for an hour or two, so that bought us a bit of time."

"A couple of cows!" exclaimed Holly. "Just how big is this fellow?"

Foaly adjusted his foil bonnet. "Bull troll. Fully grown. One hundred and eighty kilos, with tusks like a wild boar. A really wild boar."

Holly swallowed. Suddenly Recon seemed a much better job than Retrieval.

"Right. What have you got for me?"

Foaly cantered across to the equipment table. He selected what looked like a rectangular wristwatch.

"Locator. You find him, we find you. Routine stuff."

"Video?"

The centaur clipped a small cylinder into the accommodating groove on Holly’s helmet.

"Live feed. Nuclear battery. No time limit. The mike is voice activated."

"Good," said Holly. "Root said I should take a weapon on this one. Just in case."

"Way ahead of you," said Foaly. He picked a platinum handgun from the pile. "A Neutrino 2000. The latest model. Even the tunnel gangs don’t have these. Three settings if you don’t mind. Scorched, well-done, and crisped to a cinder. Nuclear power source too, so plug away. This baby will outlive you by a thousand years."

Holly strapped the lightweight weapon into her shoulder holster.

"I’m ready . . . I think."

Foaly chuckled. "I doubt it. No one’s ever really ready for a troll."

"Thanks for the confidence booster."

"Confidence is ignorance," advised the centaur. "If you’re feeling cocky, it’s because there’s something you don’t know."

Holly thought about arguing, but didn’t. Maybe it was because she had a sneaking suspicion that Foaly was right.

The pressure elevators were powered by gaseous columns vented from the earth’s core. The LEP tech boys, under Foaly’s guidance, had fashioned titanium eggs that could ride on the currents. They had their own independent motors, but for an express ride to the surface, there was nothing like the blast from a tidal flare.

Foaly led her past a long line of chute bays to E7. The pod sat in its clamp, looking very fragile to be rocketing about on magma streams. Its underside was charred black and pockmarked from shrapnel.

The centaur slapped it fondly on a fender. "This baby’s been in service for fifty years. Oldest model still in the chutes."

Holly swallowed. The chutes made her nervous enough without riding in an antique.

"When does it come off-line?"

Foaly scratched his hairy belly. "With funding the way it is, not until we have us a fatality."

Holly cranked open the heavy door, the rubber seal yielding with a hiss. The pod was not built for comfort. There was barely enough space for a restraining seat among the jumble of electronics.

"What’s that?" asked Holly, pointing at a grayish stain on the seat’s headrest.

Foaly shuffled uncomfortably.

"Erm . . . brain fluid, I think. We had a pressure leak on the last mission. But that’s plugged now. And the officer lived. Down a few IQ points, but alive, and he can still take liquids."

"Well, that’s all right, then," quipped Holly, threading her way through the mass of wires.

Foaly strapped the harness on to her, checking the restraints thoroughly.

"All set?"

Holly nodded.

Foaly tapped her helmet mike. "Keep in touch," he said, pulling the door closed behind him.

Don’t think about it, Holly told herself. Don’t think about the white-hot magma flow that’s going to engulf this tiny craft. Don’t think about hurtling toward the surface with a MACH 2 force trying to turn you inside out. And certainly don’t think about the blood-crazed troll ready to disembowel you with his tusks. Nope. Don’t think about any of that stuff. . . . Too late.

Foaly’s voice sounded in her earpiece. "T-minus twenty," he said. "We’re on a secure channel in case the Mud People have started underground monitoring. You never know. An oil tanker from the Middle East intercepted a transmission one time. What a mess that was."

Holly adjusted her helmet mike.

"Focus, Foaly. My life is in your hands here."

"Uh . . . Okay, sorry. We’re going to use the rail to drop you into E7’s main shaft, there’s a surge due any minute. That should see you past the first hundred klicks, then you’re on your own."

Holly nodded, curling her fingers around the twin joysticks.

"All systems check. Fire it up."

There was a whoosh as the pod’s engines ignited. The tiny craft jostled in its housing, shaking Holly like a bead in a rattle. She could barely hear Foaly speaking into her ear.

"You’re in the secondary shaft now. Get ready to fly, Short."

Holly pulled a rubber cylinder from the dash and slipped it between her teeth. No good having a radio if you’ve swallowed your tongue. She activated the external cameras and put the view on screen.

The entrance to E7 was creeping toward her. The air was shimmering in the landing light glow. White-hot sparks tumbled into the secondary shaft. Holly couldn’t hear the roar, but she could imagine it. A raw skinning wind like a million trolls howling.

Her fingers tightened around the joysticks. The pod shuddered to a halt at the lip. The chute stretched above and below. Massive. Boundless. Like dropping an ant down a drainpipe.

"Right-o," crackled Foaly. "Hold on to your breakfast. Roller coasters ain’t got nothing on this."

Holly nodded. She couldn’t speak, not with the rubber in her mouth. The centaur would be able to see her in the podcam anyway.

"Sayonara, sweetheart," said Foaly, and pressed the button.

The pod’s clamp tilted, rolling Holly into the abyss. Her stomach tightened as G-force took hold, dragging her to the center of the earth. The seismology section had a million probes down here, with a ninety-nine point eight success rate at predicting the magma flares. But there was always that point two percent.

The fall seemed to last for an eternity. And just when Holly had mentally consigned herself to the scrap heap, she felt it. That unforgettable vibration. The feeling that outside her tiny sphere, the whole world was being shaken apart. Here it comes.

"Fins," she said, spitting the word around the cylinder.

Foaly may have replied, she couldn’t hear him any more. Holly couldn’t even hear herself, but she did see the stabilization fins slide out on the monitor.

The flare caught her like a hurricane, spinning the pod at first until the fins caught. Half-melted rocks pelted the craft’s underside, jolting it toward the chute walls. Holly compensated with bursts from the joysticks.

The heat was tremendous in the confined space, enough to fry a human. But fairy lungs are made of stronger stuff. The acceleration dragged at her body with invisible hands, stretching the flesh over her arms and face. Holly blinked salty sweat from her eyes and concentrated on the monitor. The flare had totally engulfed her pod, and it was a big one too. Force seven at the very least. A good thousand-foot girth. Orange-striped magma swirled and hissed around her, searching for a weak point in the metal casing.

The pod groaned and complained, fifty-year-old rivets threatening to pop. Holly shook her head. The first thing she was going to do on her return was kick Foaly straight in the hairy behind. She felt like a nut inside a shell, between a gnome’s molars. Doomed.

A bow plate buckled, popped in as though punched by a giant fist. The pressure light blinked on. Holly could feel her head being squeezed. The eyes would be first to go— popping like ripe berries.

She checked the dials. Twenty more seconds before she rode out the flare and was running on thermals. Those twenty seconds seemed like an age. Holly sealed the helmet to protect her eyes, riding out the final barrage of rocks.

And suddenly they were clear, sailing upward on the comparatively gentle spirals of hot air. Holly added her own thrusters to the upward force. No time to waste floating around on the wind.

Above her, a circle of neon lights marked the docking zone. Holly swiveled horizontal and pointed the docking nodes at the lights. This was delicate. Many Recon pilots had made it this far, only to miss the port and lose valuable time. Not Holly. She was a natural. First in the academy.

She gave the thrusters one final squeeze and coasted the last hundred feet. Using the rudders beneath her feet, she teased the pod through the circle of light and into its clamp on the landing pad. The nodes revolved, settling into their grooves. Safe.

Holly smacked herself on the chest, releasing the safety harness. Once the door seal was opened, sweet surface air flooded the cabin. There was nothing like that first breath after a ride in the chutes. She breathed deeply, purging the stale pod air from her lungs. How had the People ever left the surface? Sometimes she wished that her ancestors had stayed to fight it out with the Mud People. But there were too many of them. Unlike fairies who could produce only a single child every twenty years, Mud People bred like rodents. Numbers would subdue even magic.

Although she was enjoying the night air, Holly could taste traces of pollutants. The Mud People destroyed everything they came into contact with. Of course they didn’t live in the mud anymore. Not in this country, at least. Oh no. Big fancy dwellings with rooms for everything—rooms for sleeping, rooms for eating, even a room to go to the toilet! Indoors! Holly shuddered. Imagine going to the toilet inside your own house. Disgusting! The only good thing about going to the toilet was the minerals being returned to the earth, but the Mud People had even managed to botch that up by treating the . . . stuff . . . with bottles of blue chemicals. If anyone had told her a hundred years ago that humans would be taking the fertile out of fertilizer, she would have told them to get some air holes drilled in their skull.

Holly unhooked a set of wings from their bracket. They were double ovals, with a clunky motor. She moaned. Dragonflies. She hated that model. Gas engine, if you believe it. And heavier than a pig dipped in mud. Now the Hummingbird Z7, that was transport. Whisper silent, with a satellite-bounced solar battery that would fly you twice around the world. But there were budget cuts again.

On her wrist, the locator began to beep. She was in range. Holly stepped out of the pod and on to the landing bay. She was inside a camouflaged mound of earth, commonly known as a fairy fort. Indeed, the People used to live in these until they were driven deeper underground. There wasn’t much technology. Just a few external monitors, and a self-destruct device should the bay be discovered.

There was nothing on the screens. All clear. The pneumatic doors were slightly askew where the troll had barged through, but otherwise everything seemed operational. Holly strapped on the wings, stepping into the outside world.

The Italian night sky was crisp and brisk, infused with olives and vine. Crickets clicked in the rough grass, and moths fluttered in the starlight. Holly couldn’t stop herself smiling. It was worth the risk, every bit of it.

Speaking of risk . . . She checked the locator. The bip was much stronger now. The troll was almost at the town walls! She could appreciate nature after the mission was over. Now it was time for action.

Holly primed the wings’ motor, pulling the starter cord over her shoulder. Nothing. She fumed silently. Every spoiled kid in Haven had a Hummingbird for their wilderness holidays, and here were the LEP with wings that were junk when they were new. She yanked the cord again, and then again. On the third wrench it caught, spewing a stream of smoke and fumes into the night. "About time," she grunted, flicking the throttle wide open. The wings flapped their way up to a steady beat and, with not a little effort, lifted Captain Holly Short into the night sky.

Even without the locator, the troll would have been easy to follow. It had left a trail of destruction wider than a tunnel excavator. Holly flew low, skipping between mist hazes and trees, matching the troll’s course. The crazed creature had cut a swathe through the middle of a vineyard, turned a stone wall to rubble, and left a guard dog gibbering under a hedge. Then she flew over the cows. It was not a pretty sight. Without going into details, let’s just say that there wasn’t much left besides horns and hooves.

The red bip was louder now. Louder meant closer. She could see the town below her, nestled on top of a low hill, surrounded by a crenellated wall from the Middle Ages. Lights still burned in most windows. Time for a little magic.

A lot of the magic attributed to the People is just superstition. But they do have certain powers. Healing, the mesmer, and shielding among them. Shielding is really a misnomer. What fairies actually do is to vibrate at such a high frequency that they are never in one place long enough to be seen. Humans may notice a slight shimmer in the air if they are paying close attention—which they rarely are. And even then the shimmer is generally attributed to evaporation. Typical of Mud People to invent a complicated explanation for a simple phenomenon.

Holly switched on her shield. It took a bit more out of her than usual. She could feel the strain in the beads of sweat on her forehead. I really should complete the Ritual, she thought. The sooner the better.

Some commotion below broke into her thoughts. Something that didn’t gel with the nighttime noises. Holly adjusted the trim on her backpack and flew in for a closer look. Look only, she reminded herself, that was her job. A Recon officer was sent up the chutes to pinpoint the target, while the Retrieval boys took a nice cushy shuttle.

The troll was directly below her, pounding against the town’s outer wall, which was coming away in chunks beneath his powerful fingers. Holly sucked in a startled gasp. This guy was a monster! Big as an elephant and ten times as mean. But this particular beast was worse than mean, he was scared.

"Control," said Holly into her mike. "Runner located. Situation critical topside."

Root himself was on the other end of the comlink.

"Clarify, Captain."

Holly pointed her video link at the troll.

"Runner is going through the town wall. Contact imminent. How far away is Retrieval?"

"ETA five minutes minimum. We’re still in the shuttle."

Holly bit her lip. Root was in the shuttle?

"That’s too long, Commander. This whole town is going to explode in ten seconds . . . I’m going in."

"Negative, Holly . . . Captain Short. You don’t have an invite. You know the law. Hold your position."

"But, Commander—"

Root cut her off. "No! No buts, Captain. Hang back. That’s an order!"

Holly’s entire body felt like a heartbeat. Gasoline fumes were addling her brain. What could she do? What was the right decision to make? Lives or orders?

Then the troll broke through the wall and a child’s voice split the night.

"Aiuto!" it screamed.

Help. An invitation. At a stretch.

"Sorry, Commander. The troll is light-crazy and there are children in there."

She could imagine Root’s face, purple with rage as he spat into the mike.

"I’ll have your stripes, Short! You’ll spend the next hundred years on drain duty!"

But it was no use. Holly had disconnected her mike and swooped in after the troll.

Streamlining her body, Captain Short ducked into the hole. She appeared to be in a restaurant. A packed restaurant. The troll had been temporarily blinded by the electric light and was thrashing about in the center of the floor.

The patrons were stunned. Even the child’s plea had petered out. They sat gaping, party hats perched comically on their heads. Waiters froze, huge trays of pasta quivering on their splayed fingers. Chubby Italian infants covered their eyes with chubby fingers. It was always like this in the beginning: the shocked silence. Then came the screaming.

A wine bottle crashed to the floor. It broke the spell. The pandemonium started. Holly winced. Trolls hated noise almost as much as light.

The troll lifted massive shaggy shoulders, its retractable claws sliding out with an ominous schiiick. Classic predator behavior. The beast was about to strike.

Holly drew her weapon and flicked it up to the second setting. She couldn’t kill the troll under any circumstances. Not to save humans. But she could certainly put him out until Retrieval arrived.

Aiming for the weak point at the base of the skull, she let the troll have a long burst of the concentrated ion ray. The beast staggered, stumbled a few steps, then got very angry.

It’s okay, thought Holly, I’m shielded. Invisible. To any onlookers it would seem as though the pulsing blue beam emanated from thin air.

The troll rounded on her, its muddy dreadlocks swinging like candles.

No panic. It can’t see me.

The troll picked up a table.

Invisible. Totally invisible.

He pulled back a shaggy arm and let fly.

Just a slight shimmer in the air.

The table tumbled straight toward her head.

Holly moved. A second too late. The table clipped her backpack, knocking the gas tank clean off. It spun through the air, trailing flammable fluid.

Italian restaurants—wouldn’t you know it—full of candles. The tank twirled right through an elaborate candelabrum and burst into flames like some deadly firework. Most of the gas landed on the troll. So did Holly.

The troll could see her. There was no doubt about it. It squinted at her through the hated light, its brow a rictus of pain and fear. Her shield was off. Her magic was gone.

Holly twisted in the troll’s grip, but it was useless. The creature’s fingers were the size of bananas, but nowhere near as pliant. They were squashing the breath from her rib cage with savage ease. Needlelike claws were scraping at the toughened material of her uniform. Any second now, they would punch through, and that would be that.

Holly couldn’t think. The restaurant was a carousel of chaos. The troll was gnashing its tusks, greasy molars trying to grip her helmet. Holly could smell its fetid breath through her filters. She could smell the odor of burning fur too, as the fire spread along the troll’s back.

The beast’s green tongue rasped across her visor, sliming the lower section. The visor! That was it. Her only chance. Holly wormed her free hand to the helmet controls. The tunnel lights. High beams.

She depressed the sunken button, and eight hundred watts of unfiltered light blasted from the twin spotlights above her eyes.

The troll reared back, a penetrating scream exploding from between rows of teeth. Dozens of glasses and bottles shattered where they stood. It was too much for the poor beast. Stunned, set on fire, and now blinded. The shock and pain made their way through to its tiny brain, ordering it to shut down. The troll complied, keeling over with almost comical stiffness. Holly rolled to avoid a scything tusk.

There was complete silence, but for tinkling glass, crackling fur, and the sudden release of breath. Holly climbed shakily to her feet. There were a lot of eyes following her—human eyes. She was one hundred percent visible. And these humans wouldn’t stay complacent for long. This breed never did. Containment was the issue.

She raised her empty palms. A gesture of peace.

"Scusatemi tutti," she said, the language flowing easily from her tongue.

The Italians, ever graceful, muttered that it was nothing.

Holly reached slowly into her pocket and withdrew a small sphere. She placed it in the middle of the floor.

"Guardate," she said. Look.

The restaurant’s patrons complied, leaning in to see the small silver ball. It was ticking, faster and faster, almost like a countdown. Holly turned her back to the sphere. Three, two, one . . .

Boom! Flash! Mass unconsciousness. Nothing fatal, but headaches all around in about forty minutes. Holly sighed. Safe. For the moment. She ran to the door and slid the latch across. Nobody was going in or out. Except through the big gaping hole in the wall. Next she doused the smouldering troll with the contents of the restaurant’s fire extinguisher, hoping the icy powder wouldn’t revive the sleeping behemoth.

Holly surveyed the mess she had created. There was no doubt, it was a shambles. Worse than Hamburg. Root would skin her alive. She’d rather face the troll any day. This was the end of her career for sure, but suddenly that didn’t seem so important because her ribs were aching, and she had a blinder of a pressure headache coming on. Perhaps a rest, just for a second, so she could pull herself together before Retrieval showed up.

Holly didn’t even bother looking for a chair. She simply allowed her legs to buckle beneath her, sinking to the chessboard linoleum floor.

Waking up to Commander Root’s bulging features is the stuff of nightmares. Holly’s eyes flickered open, and for a second she could have sworn that there was concern in those eyes. But then it was gone, replaced by the customary vein-popping fury.

"Captain Short!" he roared, mindless of her headache. "What in the name of sanity happened here?"

Holly rose shakily to her feet.

"I . . . That is . . . There was . . ." The sentences just wouldn’t come.

"You disobeyed a direct order. I told you to hang back! You know it’s forbidden to enter a human building without an invitation."

Holly shook the shadows from her vision.

"I got invited in. A child called for help."

"You’re on shaky ground there, Short."

"There is precedent, sir. Corporal Rowe versus the State. The jury ruled that the trapped woman’s cry for help could be accepted as an invitation into the building. Anyway, you’re all here now. That means you accepted the invitation, too."

"Hmm," said Root doubtfully. "I suppose you were lucky. Things could have been worse."

Holly looked around. Things couldn’t have been a lot worse. The establishment was pretty trashed, and there were forty humans out for the count. The tech boys were attaching mind-wipe electrodes to the temples of unconscious diners.

"We managed to secure the area, in spite of half the town hammering on the door."

"What about the hole?"

Root smirked. "See for yourself."

Holly glanced over. Retrieval had jimmied a hologram lead into the existing electricity sockets and were projecting an unbattered wall over the hole. The holograms were handy for quick patches, but no good under scrutiny. Anyone who examined the wall too closely would have noticed that the slightly transparent patch was exactly the same as the stretch beside it. In this case there were two identical patches of spiderweb cracks and two reproductions of the same Rembrandt. But the people inside the pizzeria were in no condition to examine walls and by the time they woke up, the wall would have been repaired by the telekinetic division, and the entire paranormal experience would be removed from their memories.

A Retrieval officer bolted from the rest room.

"Commander!"

"Yes, sergeant?"

"There’s a human in here, sir. The Concusser didn’t reach him. He’s coming, sir. Right now, sir!"

"Shields!" barked Root. "Everyone!"

Holly tried. She really did. But it wouldn’t come. Her magic was gone. A toddler waddled out of the bathroom, his eyes heavy with sleep. He pointed a pudgy finger directly at Holly.

"Ciao, fulletta," he said, before climbing into his father’s lap to continue his snooze.

Root shimmered back into the visible spectrum. He was, if possible, even angrier than before.

"What happened to your shield, Short?"

Holly swallowed.

"Stress, Commander," she offered hopefully.

Root wasn’t having any of it. "You lied to me, Captain. You’re not running hot at all, are you?"

Holly shook her head mutely.

"How long since you completed the Ritual?"

Holly chewed her lip. "I’d say . . . about . . . four years, sir."

Root nearly popped a vein.

"Four . . . Four years? It’s a wonder you lasted this long! Do it now. Tonight! You’re not coming below ground again without your powers. You’re a danger to yourself and your fellow officers!"

"Yessir."

"Get a set of Hummingbirds from Retrieval and zip across to the old country. There’s a full moon tonight."

"Yessir."

"And don’t think I’ve forgotten about this shambles. We’ll talk about it when you get back."

"Yessir. Very good, sir."

Holly turned to go, but Root cleared his throat for attention.

"Oh, and Captain Short . . ."

"Yessir?"

Root’s face had lost its purple tinge—he almost seemed embarrassed.

"Well done on the life-saving thing. Could have been worse, an awful lot worse."

Holly beamed behind her visor. Perhaps she wouldn’t be kicked out of Recon after all.

"Thank you, sir."

Root grunted, his complexion returning to its normal ruddy hue.

"Now get out of here, and don’t come back until you’re full to the tips of your ears with magic!"

Holly sighed. So much for gratitude.

"Yes, sir. On my way, sir."





CHAPTER 4

ABDUCTION




Artemis’s main problem was one of location— how to locate a leprechaun. This was one sly bunch of fairies, hanging around for God knows how many millennia and still not one photo, not one frame of video. Not even a Loch Ness-type hoax. They weren’t exactly a sociable group. And they were smart, too. No one had ever got his hands on fairy gold. But no one had ever had access to the Book either. And puzzles were so simple when you had the key.

Artemis had summoned the Butlers to his study, and spoke to them now from behind a mini-lectern.

"There are certain rituals every fairy must complete to renew his magic," explained Artemis.

Butler and Juliet nodded, as though this were a normal briefing.

Artemis flicked through his hard copy of the Book and selected a passage.

"From the earth thine power flows, Given through courtesy, so thanks are owed. Pluck thou the magick seed, Where full moon, ancient oak and twisted water meet. And bury it far from where it was found, So return your gift into the ground."

Artemis closed the text. "Do you see?"

Butler and Juliet kept nodding, while still looking thoroughly mystified.

Artemis sighed. "The leprechaun is bound by certain rituals. Very specific rituals, I might add. We can use them to track one down."

Juliet raised a hand, even though she herself was four years Artemis’s senior.

"Yes?"

"Well, the thing is, Artemis," she said hesitantly, twisting a strand of blond hair in a way that several of the local louts considered extremely attractive. "The bit about leprechauns."

Artemis frowned. It was a bad sign. "Your point, Juliet?"

"Well, leprechauns. You know they’re not real, don’t you?"

Butler winced. It was his fault really. He’d never got around to filling in his sister on the mission parameters.

Artemis scowled reprovingly at him.

"Butler hasn’t already talked to you about this?"

"No. Was he supposed to?"

"Yes, he certainly was. Perhaps he thought you’d laugh at him."

Butler squirmed. That was exactly what he’d thought. Juliet was the only person alive who laughed at him with embarrassing regularity. Most other people did it once. Just once.

Artemis cleared his throat. "Let us proceed under the assumption that the fairy folk do exist, and that I am not a gibbering moron."

Butler nodded weakly. Juliet was unconvinced.

"Very well. Now, as I was saying, the People have to fulfill a specific ritual to renew their powers. According to my interpretation, they must pick a seed from an ancient oak tree by the bend in a river. And they must do this during the full moon."

The light began to dawn in Butler’s eyes. "So all we have to do ..."

"Is run a cross reference through the weather satellites, which I already have. Believe it or not, there aren’t that many ancient oaks left, if you take ancient to be a hundred years plus. When you factor in the river bend and full moon, there are precisely one hundred and twenty-nine sites to be surveyed in this country."

Butler grinned. Stakeout. Now the Master was talking his language.

"There are preparations to be made for our guest’s arrival," said Artemis, handing a typewritten sheet of A4 to Juliet. "These alterations must be made to the cellar. See to it, Juliet. To the letter."

"Yes, Arty."

Artemis frowned, but only slightly. For reasons that he couldn’t quite fathom, he didn’t mind terribly when Juliet called him by the pet name his mother had for him.

Butler scratched his chin thoughtfully. Artemis noticed the gesture.

"Question?"

"Well, Artemis. The sprite in Ho Chi Minh City . . ."

Artemis nodded. "I know. Why didn’t we simply abduct her?"

"Yes, sir."

"According to Chi Lun’s Almanac of the People, a seventh-century manuscript recovered from the lost city of Sh’shamo: Once a fairy has taken spirits with the Mud People—that’s us by the way—they are forever dead to their brothers and sisters. So there was no guarantee that that particular fairy was worth even an ounce of gold. No, my old friend, we need fresh blood. All clear?"

Butler nodded.

"Good. Now, there are several items you will need to procure for our moonlight jaunts."

Butler scanned the sheet: basic field equipment, a few eyebrow raisers, nothing too puzzling until . . .

"Sunglasses? At night?"

When Artemis smiled, as he did now, one almost expected vampire fangs to sprout from his gums.

"Yes, Butler. Sunglasses. Trust me."

And Butler did. Implicitly.

Holly activated the thermal coil in her suit, and climbed to thirteen thousand feet. The Hummingbird wings were top of the range. The battery readout showed four red bars—more than enough for a quick jaunt through mainland Europe and across the British Isles. Of course, the regulations said always travel over water if possible, but Holly could never resist knocking the snowcap from the highest Alp on her way past.

The suit protected Holly from the worst of the elements, but she could still feel the chill sinking into her bones. The moon seemed huge from this altitude, the craters on its surface easily distinguishable. Tonight it was a perfect sphere. A magical full moon. Immigration would have their hands full, as thousands of surface-sick fairies were drawn irresistibly overground. A large percentage would make it, probably causing mayhem in their revelry. Earth’s mantle was riddled with illegal tunnels, and it was impossible to police them all.

Holly followed the Italian coast up to Monaco, and from there across the Alps to France. She loved flying— all fairies did. According to the Book, they had once been equipped with wings of their own, but evolution had stripped them of this power. All but the sprites. One school of thought believed that the People were descended from airborne dinosaurs. Possibly pterodactyls. Much of the upper body skeletal structure was the same. This theory would certainly explain the tiny nub of bone on each shoulder blade.

Holly toyed with the idea of visiting Disneyland Paris. The LEP had several undercover operatives stationed there, most of them working in the Snow White exhibit. It was one of the few places on Earth where the People could pass unnoticed. But if some tourist got a photo of her and it ended up on the Internet, Root would have her badge for sure. With a sigh of regret, she passed over the shower of multicolored fireworks below.

Once across the Channel, Holly flew low, skipping over the white-crested waves. She called out to the dolphins and they rose to the surface, leaping from the water to match her pace. She could see the pollution in them, bleaching their skin white and giving them red sores on their backs. And although she smiled, her heart was breaking. Mud People had a lot to answer for.

Finally the coast loomed ahead of her. The old country. Éiriú, the land where time began. The most magical place on the planet. It was here, ten thousand years ago, that the ancient fairy race, the Dé Danann, had battled against the demon Fomorians, carving the famous Giants’ Causeway with the strength of their magical blasts. It was here that the Lia Fáil stood, the rock at the center of the universe, where the fairy kings and later the human Ard Rí were crowned. And it was also here, unfortunately, that the Mud People were most in tune with magic, which resulted in a far higher People-sighting rate than you got anywhere else on the planet. Thankfully the rest of the world assumed that the Irish were crazy, a theory that the Irish themselves did nothing to debunk. They had somehow got it into their heads that each fairy lugged around a pot of gold with him wherever he went. While it was true that LEP had a ransom fund, because of its officers’ high-risk occupation, no human had ever taken a chunk of it yet. This didn’t stop the Irish population in general from skulking around rainbows, hoping to win the supernatural lottery.

But in spite of all that, if there was one race the People felt an affinity for it was the Irish. Perhaps it was their eccentricity, perhaps their dedication to the craic, as they called it. And if the People were actually related to humans, as another theory had it, odds are that the Emerald Isle was where it started.

Holly punched up a map on her wrist locator and set it to sweep for magical hot spots. The best site would obviously be Tara, near the Lia Fáil, but on a night like tonight, every traditionalist fairy with an overground pass would be dancing around the holy scene, so best to give it a miss.

There was a secondary site not far from here, just off the southeast coast. Easy access from the air, but remote and desolate for land-bound humans. Holly reined in the throttle and descended to ninety yards. She skipped over a bristling evergreen forest, emerging in a moonlit meadow. A silver thread of river bisected the field and there, nestling in the fold of a meander loop, was the proud oak.

Holly checked her locator for life-forms. Once she judged the cow two fields over not to be a threat, she cut her engines and glided to the foot of the mighty tree.

Four months of stakeout. Even Butler, the consummate professional, was beginning to dread the long nights of dampness and insect bites. Thankfully, the moon was not full every night.

It was always the same. They would crouch in their foil-lined blind in complete silence, Butler repeatedly checking his equipment, while Artemis stared unblinking through the eye of the scope. At times like these, nature seemed deafening in their confined space. Butler longed to whistle, to make conversation, anything to break the unnatural silence. But Artemis’s concentration was absolute. He would brook no interference or lapse of focus. This was business.

Tonight they were in the southeast. The most inaccessible site yet. Butler had been forced to make three trips to the Jeep in order to hump the equipment across a stile, a bog, and two fields. His boots and trousers were ruined. And now he would have to sit in the blind with ditchwater soaking into the seat of his pants. Artemis had somehow contrived to remain spotless.

The blind was ingenious in design and interest had already been expressed in the manufacturing rights— mostly by military representatives—but Artemis had resolved to sell the patent to a sporting goods multinational. It was constructed of an elasticated foil polymer on a multihinged fiberglass skeleton. The foil, similar to that used by NASA, trapped the heat inside the structure while preventing the camouflaged outside surface from overheating. This ensured that any animals sensitive to heat would be unaware of its presence. The hinges meant that the blind would move almost like a liquid, filling whatever depression it was dropped into. Instant shelter and vantage point. You simply placed the Velcroed bag in a hole and pulled the string.

But all the cleverness in the world couldn’t improve the atmosphere. Something was troubling Artemis. It was plain in the web of premature lines that spread from the corners of his deep blue eyes.

After several nights of fruitless surveillance, Butler plucked up enough courage to ask. . . .

"Artemis," he began hesitantly, "I realize it’s not my place, but I know there’s something wrong. And if there’s anything I can do to help . . ."

Artemis didn’t speak for several moments. And for those few moments, Butler saw the face of a young boy. The boy Artemis might have been.

"It’s my mother, Butler," he said at last. "I’m beginning to wonder if she’ll ever—"

Then the proximity alarm flashed red.

Holly hooked the wings over a low branch, unstrapping the helmet to give her ears some air. You had to be careful with elfin ears—a few hours in the helmet and they started to flake. She gave the tips a massage. No dry skin there. That was because she had a daily moisturizing regime, not like some of the male LEP officers. When they took off their helmets, you’d swear it had just started to snow.

Holly paused for a minute to admire the view. Ireland certainly was picturesque. Even the Mud People hadn’t been able to destroy that. Not yet anyway . . . Give them another century or two. The river was folding gently before her like a silver snake, hissing as the water tumbled across a stony bed. The oak tree crackled overhead, its branches rasping together in the bracing breeze.

Now, to work. She could do the tourist thing all night once her business was complete. A seed. She needed a seed. Holly bent to the ground, brushing the dried leaves and twigs from the clay’s surface. Her fingers closed around a smooth acorn. That wasn’t hard now, was it? she thought. All that remained for her to do was plant it somewhere else, and her powers would come rushing back.

Butler checked the porta-radar, muting the volume in case the equipment betrayed their position. The red arm swept the screen with agonizing lethargy, and then . . . flash! An upright figure by the tree. Too small for an adult, the wrong proportions for a child. He gave Artemis the thumbs up. Possible match.

Artemis nodded, strapping the mirrored sunglasses across his brow. Butler followed his lead, popping the cap on his weapon’s starlight scope. This was no ordinary dart rifle. It had been specially tooled for a Kenyan ivory hunter, and had the range and rapid fire capacity of a Kalashnikov. Butler had picked it up for a song from a government official after the ivory poacher’s execution.

They crept into the night with practiced silence. The diminutive figure before them unhooked a contraption from around its shoulders and lifted a full-face helmet from a definitely nonhuman head. Butler wrapped the rifle strap twice around his wrist, pulling the stock into his shoulder. He activated the scope and a red dot appeared in the center of the figure’s back. Artemis nodded and his manservant squeezed the trigger.

In spite of a million-to-one odds, it was at that precise moment that the figure bent low to the earth.

Something whizzed over Holly’s head, something that glinted in the starlight. Holly had enough on-the-job experience to realize that she was under fire, and immediately curled her elfin frame into a ball, minimizing the target.

She drew her pistol, rolling toward the shelter of the tree trunk. Her brain scrambled for possibilities. Who could be shooting at her and why?

Something was waiting beside the tree. Something roughly the size of a mountain, but considerably more mobile.

"Nice peashooter," grinned the figure, smothering Holly’s gun hand in a turnip-sized fist.

Holly managed to extricate her fingers a nanosecond before they snapped like brittle spaghetti.

"I don’t suppose you would consider peaceful surrender?" said a cold voice behind her.

Holly turned, elbows raised for combat.

"No," sighed the boy melodramatically. "I suppose not."

Holly put on her best brave face.

"Stay back, human. You don’t know what you’re dealing with."

The boy laughed. "I believe, fairy, that you are the one unfamiliar with the facts."

Fairy? He knew she was a fairy.

"I have magic, mud-worm. Enough to turn you and your gorilla into pig droppings."

The boy took a step closer. "Brave words, miss. But lies nonetheless. If, as you say, you had magic, you would have no doubt used it by now. No, I suspect that you have gone too long without the Ritual and you are here to replenish your powers."

Holly was dumbfounded. There was a human before her, casually spouting sacred secrets. This was disastrous. Catastrophic. It could mean the end of generations of peace. If the humans were aware of a fairy subculture, it was only a matter of time before the two species went to war. She must do something, and there was only one weapon left in her arsenal.

The mesmer is the lowest form of magic and requires only a trickle of power. There are even certain humans with a bent for the talent. It is within the ability of even the most drained fairy to put a complete mind kibosh on any human alive.

Holly summoned the final dribble of magic from the base of her skull.

"Human," she intoned, her voice suddenly resonating with bass tones. "Your will is mine."

Artemis smiled, safe behind his mirrored lenses. "I doubt it," he said, and nodded curtly.

Holly felt the dart puncture the suit’s toughened material, depositing its load of curare and succinylcholine chloride-based tranquilizer into her shoulder. The world instantly dissolved into a series of technicolored bubbles and, try as she might, Holly couldn’t seem to hold on to more than one thought. And that thought was: How did they know? It spiraled around her head as she sank into unconsciousness. How did they know? How did they know? How did they . . .

Artemis saw the pain in the creature’s eyes as the hollow hypodermic plunged into her body. And for a moment he experienced misgivings. A female. He hadn’t expected that. A female, like Juliet, or Mother. Then the moment passed and he was himself again.

"Good shooting," he said, bending to study their prisoner. Definitely a girl. Pretty too. In a pointy sort of way.

"Sir?"

"Hmm?"

Butler was pointing to the creature’s helmet. It was half buried in a drift of leaves where the fairy had dropped it. A buzzing noise was coming from the crown.

Artemis picked up the contraption by the straps, searching for the source.

"Ah, here we are." He plucked the viewcam from its slot, careful to point the lens away from Butler. "Fairy technology. Most impressive," he muttered, popping the battery from its groove. The camera whined and died. "Nuclear power source, if I’m not mistaken. We must be careful not to underestimate our opponents."

Butler nodded, sliding their captive into an oversized duffel bag. Something else to be lugged across two fields, a bog, and a stile.





CHAPTER 5

MISSING IN ACTION




Commander Root was sucking on a particularly noxious fungus cigar. Several of the Retrieval Squad had nearly passed out in the shuttle. Even the stench from the manacled troll seemed mild in comparison. Of course, no one said anything, their boss being touchier than a septic boil.

Foaly, on the other hand, delighted in antagonizing his superior. "None of your rancid stogies in here, Commander!" he brayed, the moment Root made it back to Ops. "The computers don’t like smoke!"

Root scowled, certain that Foaly was making this up. Nevertheless, the commander was not prepared to risk a computer crash in the middle of an alert, and so doused his cigar in the coffee cup of a passing gremlin.

"Now, Foaly, what’s this so-called alert? And it better be good this time!"

The centaur had a tendency to go completely hyper over trivialities. He’d once gone to Defcon Two because his human satellite stations were out.

"It’s good all right," Foaly assured him. "Or should I say bad? Very bad."

Root felt the ulcer in his gut begin to bubble like a volcano.

"How bad?"

Foaly punched up Ireland on the Eurosat. "We lost contact with Captain Short."

"Why am I not surprised?" groaned Root, burying his face in his hands.

"We had her all the way over the Alps."

"The Alps? She took a land route?"

Foaly nodded. "Against regulations, I know. But everyone does it."

The commander agreed grudgingly. Who could resist a view like that? As a rookie, he’d been placed on report himself for that exact offense.

"Okay. Move on. When did we lose her?"

Foaly opened a viewer window on the screen.

"This is the feed from Holly’s helmet unit. Here we are over Disneyland Paris. . . ."

The centaur pressed the fast forward.

"Now dolphins, blah blah blah. The Irish coastline. Still no worries. Look, her locator comes into shot. Captain Short is scanning for magic hot spots. Site fifty-seven shows up red, so she heads for that one."

"Why not Tara?"

Foaly snorted. "Tara? Every fairy hippie in the northern hemisphere will be dancing around the Lia Fáil at the full moon. There’ll be so many shields on, it’ll look like the whole place is underwater."

"Fine," grunted Root through gritted teeth. "Just get on with it, will you."

"All right. Don’t get your ears in a knot." Foaly skipped several minutes of tape. "Now. Here’s the interesting bit. . . . Nice smooth landing, hangs up the wings. Holly takes off the helmet."

"Against regulations," interjected Root. "LEP officers must never remove—"

"LEP officers must never remove their headgear above ground, unless said headgear is defective," completed Foaly. "Yes, Commander, we all know what the handbook says. But are you trying to tell me that you never sneaked a breath of air after a few hours in the sky?"

"No," admitted Root. "What are you? Her fairy godmother or something? Get to the important part!"

Foaly smirked behind his hand. Driving up Root’s blood pressure was one of the few perks of the job. No one else would dare to do it. That was because everybody else was replaceable. Not Foaly. He’d built the system from scratch, and if anyone else even tried to boot it up, a hidden virus would bring it crashing about their pointy ears.

"The important part. Here we are. Look. Suddenly Holly drops the helmet. It must land lens down, because we lose, picture. We’ve still got sound though, so I’ll bring that up."

Foaly boosted the audio signal, filtering out background noise.

"Not great quality. The mike is in the camera. So that was nose down in the dirt too."

"Nice peashooter," said a voice. Definitely human. Deep too. That usually meant big.

Root raised an eyebrow. "Peashooter?"

"Slang for gun."

"Oh." Then the importance of that simple statement struck him. "She drew her weapon."

"Just wait. It gets worse."

"I don’t suppose you would consider peaceful surrender?" said a second voice. Just listening to it gave the commander shivers. "No," continued the voice. "I suppose not."

"This is bad," said Root, his face uncharacteristically pale. "This feels like a setup. These two goons were waiting. How is that possible?"

Holly’s voice came through the speaker then, typically brazen in the face of danger. The commander sighed. At least she was alive. It was more bad news, though, as the parties exchanged threats, and the second human displayed an uncommon knowledge of fairy affairs.

"He knows about the Ritual!"

"Here’s the worst bit."

Root’s jaw dropped. "The worst bit?"

Holly’s voice again. This time layered with the mesmer.

"Now she has them," crowed Root.

But apparently not. Not only did the mesmer prove ineffective, but the mysterious pair seemed to find it amusing.

"That’s all there is from Holly," noted Foaly. "One of the Mud People messes around with the camera for a bit and then we lose everything."

Root rubbed the creases between his eyes. "Not much to go on. No visual, not even a name. We can’t really be a hundred percent sure that we have a situation."

"You want proof?" asked Foaly, rewinding the tape. "I’ll give you proof."

He ran the available video.

"Now, watch this. I’m going to slow it right down. One frame per second."

Root leaned in close to the screen, close enough to see the pixels.

"Captain Short comes in for a landing. She takes off her helmet. Bends down, presumably to pick up an acorn, and . . . there!"

Foaly jabbed the pause button, freezing the picture completely. "See anything unusual?"

The commander felt his ulcer churn into overdrive.

Something had appeared in the top right-hand corner of the frame. At first glance it seemed like a shaft of light, but light from what or reflected from what?

"Can you blow that up?"

"No problem."

Foaly cut to the relevant area, increasing it by four hundred percent. The light expanded to fill the screen.

"Oh no," breathed Root.

There on the monitor before them, in frozen suspension, was a hypodermic dart. There could be no doubt. Captain Holly Short was missing in action. Most probably dead, but at the very least held captive by a hostile force.

"Tell me we still have the locator."

"Yep. Strong signal. Moving north at about eighty klicks an hour."

Root was silent for a moment, formulating his strategy.

"Go to full alert, and get Retrieval out of their bunks and back down here. Prep them for a surface shot. I want full tactical and a couple of techies. You too, Foaly. We may have to stop time on this one."

"Ten four, Commander. You want Recon in on this?"

Root nodded. "You bet."

"I’ll call in Captain Vein. He’s our number one."

"Oh, no," said Root. "For a job like this, we need our very best. And that’s me. I’m reactivating myself."

Foaly was so amazed, he couldn’t even formulate a smart comment.

"You’re . . . You’re . . ."

"Yes, Foaly. Don’t act so surprised. I have more successful recons under my belt than any officer in history. Plus I did my basic training in Ireland. Back in the top hat and shillelagh days."

"Yes, but that was five hundred years ago, and you were no spring bud then, not to put too fine a point on it."

Root smiled dangerously. "Don’t worry, Foaly. I’m still running red hot. And I’ll make up for my age with a really big gun. Now get a pod ready. I’m leaving on the next flare."

Foaly did what he was told without a single quip. When the commander got that glint in his eyes, you hopped to and kept your mouth shut. But there was another reason for Foaly’s silent compliance. It had just hit him that Holly could be in real trouble. Centaurs don’t make many friends, and Foaly was worried he might lose one of the few he had.

Artemis had anticipated some technological advances, but nothing like the treasure trove of fairy hardware spread out on the four-wheel drive’s dashboard.

"Impressive," he murmured. "We could abort this mission right now and still make a fortune in patents."

Artemis ran a handheld scanner bar over the unconscious elf’s wristband. He then fed the fairy characters into his PowerBook translator.

"This is a locator of some kind. No doubt this leprechaun’s comrades are tracking us right now."

Butler swallowed. "Right now, sir?"

"It would seem so. Or at any rate they’re tracking the locator—"

Artemis stopped speaking suddenly, his eyes losing focus as the electricity in his cranium sparked off another brainwave.

"Butler?"

The manservant felt his pulse quicken. He knew that tone. Something was afoot.

"Yes, Artemis?"

"That Japanese whaler. The one seized by the port authorities. Is she still tied up at the docks?"

Butler nodded. "Yes, I believe so."

Artemis twirled the locator’s band around his index finger.

"Good. Take us down there. I believe it’s time to let our diminutive friends know exactly who they’re dealing with."

Root rubber-stamped his own reactivation with remarkable speed—very unusual for LEP upper management. Generally it took months, and several mind-crushingly dull meetings, to approve any application to the Recon Squad. Luckily, Root had a bit of influence with the commander.

It felt good to be back in a field uniform, and Root even managed to convince himself that the jumpsuit was no tighter around the middle than it used to be. The bulge, he rationalized, was caused by all the new equipment they jammed into these things. Personally, Root had no time for gadgetry. The only items the commander was interested in were the wings on his back and the multiphase, water-cooled, tribarreled blaster strapped to his hip—the most powerful production handgun under the world. Old, to be sure, but it had seen Root through a dozen firefights and it made him feel like a field officer again.

The nearest chute to Holly’s position was E1:Tara. Not exactly an ideal location for a stealth mission, but with barely two hours of moon time left there was no time for an overground jaunt. If there was to be any chance of sorting out this mess before sunrise, speed was of the essence. He commandeered the E1 shuttle for his team, bumping a tour group that had apparently been on line for two years.

"Tough nuggets," Root growled at the holiday rep. "And what’s more, I’m shutting down all nonessential flights until the present crisis is past."

"And when might that be?" squeaked the irate gnome, brandishing a notebook as though she were prepared to make a complaint of some kind.

Root spat out the butt of his cigar, squashing it comprehensively beneath his boot heel. The symbolism was all too obvious.

"The chutes will be opened, madam, when I feel like it," growled the commander. "And if you and your fluorescent uniform don’t get out of my way, I’ll yank your operating license and have you thrown into the cells for obstructing an LEP officer."

The holiday rep wilted before him and slunk back into line, wishing her uniform wasn’t quite so pink.

Foaly was waiting at the pod. Serious though the moment was, he couldn’t resist an amused whinny at the sight of Root’s belly wobbling ever so slightly in his clinging jumpsuit.

"Are you sure about this, commander? Generally we allow only one passenger per pod."

"What do you mean?" snarled Root. "There is only one. . . ."

Then he caught Foaly’s meaningful glance at his stomach.

"Oh. Ha ha. Very amusing. Keep it up, Foaly. I have my limit, you know."

But it was a hollow threat and they both knew it. Not only had Foaly built their communications network from scratch, but he was also a pioneer in the field of flare prediction. Without him, human technology could very easily catch up with the fairy brand.

Root strapped himself into the pod. No half-century-old crafts for the commander. This baby was fresh off the assembly line. All silver and shiny, with the new jagged fin stabilizers that were supposed to read the magma currents automatically. Foaly’s innovation, of course. For a century or so his pod designs had leaned toward the futuristic— plenty of neon and rubber. Lately, however, his sensibilities had become more retrospective, replacing the gadgetry with walnut dashes and leather upholstery. Root found this old style decor strangely comforting.

He wrapped his fingers around the joysticks and suddenly realized just how long it had been since he had ridden the hotshots. Foaly noticed his discomfort.

"Don’t worry, chief," he said without the usual cynicism. "It’s like riding a unicorn. You never forget."

Root grunted, unconvinced. "Let’s get the show on the road," he muttered. "Before I change my mind."

Foaly hauled the door across until the suction ring took hold, sealing the portal with a pneumatic hiss. Root’s face took on a green hue through the quartz pane. He didn’t look too scary anymore. Quite the opposite in fact.

Artemis was performing a little field surgery on the fairy locator. It was no mean feat to alter some of the dimensions without destroying the mechanisms. The technologies were most definitely incompatible. Imagine trying to perform open-heart surgery with a sledgehammer.

The first problem was opening the cursed thing. The screwheads defied both flathead and Phillips screwdrivers. Even Artemis’s extensive set of Allen wrenches were unable to find purchase in the tiny grooves. Think futuristic, Artemis told himself. Think advanced technology.

It came to him after a few moments of silent contemplation. Magnetic bolts. Obvious, really. But how to construct a revolving magnetic field in the back of a four-wheel drive? Impossible. The only thing for it was to chase the screws around manually with a domestic magnet.

Artemis hunted the small magnet from its niche in the toolbox and applied both poles to the tiny screws. The negative side wiggled them slightly. It was enough to give Artemis some room to maneuver with needlenose pliers, and he soon had the locator’s panel disassembled before him.

The circuitry was minute. And not a sign of a solder bead. They must use another form of binder. Perhaps if he had time the principles of this device could be unraveled, but for now he would have to improvise. He would have to rely on the inattention of others. And if the People were anything like humans, they saw what they wanted to see.

Artemis held the locator’s face up to the cab’s light. It was translucent. Slightly polarized but good enough. He nudged a slew of tiny shimmering wires aside, inserting a buttonhole camera in the space. He secured the pea-sized transmitter with a dab of silicone. Crude but effective. Hopefully.

The magnetic screws refused to be coaxed back into their grooves without the proper tool, so Artemis was forced to glue them too. Messy, but it should suffice, provided the locator wasn’t examined too closely. And if it was? Well, he would only lose an advantage that he never expected to have in the first place.

Butler knocked off his high beams as they entered the city limits. "Dock’s coming up, Artemis," he said over his shoulder. "There’s bound to be a Customs and Excise crew around somewhere."

Artemis nodded. It made sense. The port was a thriving artery of illegal activity. Over fifty percent of the country’s contraband made it ashore somewhere along this half-mile stretch.

"A diversion then, Butler. Two minutes are all I need."

The manservant nodded thoughtfully.

"The usual?"

"I don’t see why not. Knock yourself out. . . . Or rather don’t."

Artemis blinked. That was his second joke in recent times. And his first aloud. Better take care. This was no time for frivolity.

* * *


The dockers were rolling cigarettes. It wasn’t easy with fingers the size of lead bars, but they managed. And if a few strands of brown tobacco dropped to the rough flagstones, what of it? The pouches were available by the carton from a little man who didn’t bother adding government tax to his prices.

Butler strolled over to the men, his eyes shadowed beneath the brim of a watch cap.

"Cold night," he said to the assembled group.

No one replied. Policemen came in all shapes and sizes.

The big stranger persevered. "Even work is better than standing around on a frosty one like tonight."

One of the workmen, a bit soft in the head, couldn’t help nodding in agreement. A comrade drove an elbow into his ribs.

"Still, though," continued the newcomer. "I don’t suppose you girls ever did a decent day’s work in your lives."

Again there was no reply. But this time it was because the dockers’ mouths were hanging open in amazement.

"Yep, you’re a pathetic-looking bunch, all right," went on Butler blithely. "Oh, I’ve no doubt you would have passed as men during the famine. But by today’s standards you’re little more than a pack of blouse-wearing weaklings."

"Arrrrgh," said one of the dock hands. It was all he could manage.

Butler raised an eyebrow. "Argh? Pathetic and inarticulate. Nice combination. Your mothers must be so proud."

The stranger had crossed a sacred line. He had mentioned the men’s mothers. Nothing could get him out of a beating now, not even the fact that he was obviously a simpleton. Albeit a simpleton with a good vocabulary.

The men stamped out their cigarettes and spread slowly into a semicircle. It was six against one. You had to feel sorry for them. Butler wasn’t finished yet.

"Now before we get into anything, ladies, no scratching, no spitting, and no tattling to Mommy."

It was the last straw. The men howled and attacked as one. If they had been paying any attention to their adversary in that moment before contact, they might have noticed that he shifted his weight to lower his center of gravity. They might also have seen that the hands he drew out of his pockets were the size and approximate shape of spades. But no one was paying attention to Butler—too busy watching their comrades, making sure they weren’t alone in the assault.

The thing about a diversion is that it has to be diverting. Big. Crude. Not Butler’s style at all. He would have preferred to take these gentlemen out from five hundred feet with a dart rifle. Failing that, if contact was absolutely necessary, a series of thumb jabs to the nerve cluster at the base of the neck would be his chosen modus operandi—quiet as a whisper. But that would be defeating the purpose of the exercise.

And so Butler went against his training, screaming like a demon and utilizing the most vulgar combat actions. Vulgar they may have been, but that’s not to say they weren’t effective. Perhaps a Shao Lin priest could have anticipated some of the more exaggerated movements, but these men were hardly trained adversaries. In fairness, they weren’t even completely sober.

Butler dropped the first with a roundhouse punch. Two more had their heads clapped together, cartoon style. The fourth was, to Butler’s eternal shame, dispatched with a spinning kick. But the most ostentatious was saved for the last pair. The manservant rolled on to his back, caught them by the collars of their donkey jackets, and flipped them into Dublin harbor. Big splashes, plenty of wailing. Perfect.

Two headlights poked from the black shadow of a cargo container and a government saloon screeched along the quay. As anticipated, a Customs and Excise team on stakeout. Butler grinned with grim satisfaction and ducked around the corner. He was long gone before the agents had flipped their badges or begun inquiries. Not that their interrogations would yield much. "Big as a house" was hardly an adequate description to track him down.

By the time Butler reached the car, Artemis had already returned from his mission.

"Well done, old friend," he commented. "Although I’m certain your martial arts sensei is turning in his grave. A spinning kick? How could you?"

Butler bit his tongue, reversing the four-wheel drive off the woodenworks. As they crossed the overpass, he couldn’t resist glancing down at the chaos he had created. The government men were hauling a sodden docker from the polluted waters.

Artemis had needed this diversion for something. But Butler knew there was no point in asking what. His employer did not share his plans with anyone until he thought the time was right. And if Artemis Fowl thought the time was right, then it usually was.

Root emerged shaking from the pod. He didn’t remember it being like this in his time. Although, truth be told, it had probably been an awful lot worse. Back in the shillelagh days, there were no fancy polymer harnesses, no auto thrusters, and certainly no external monitors. It was just gut instinct and a touch of enchantment. In some ways Root preferred it like that. Science was taking the magic out of everything.

He stumbled down the tunnel into the terminal. As the number-one preferred destination, Tara had a fully fledged passenger lounge. Six shuttles a week came in from Haven City alone. Not on the flares, of course. Paying tourists didn’t like to be jostled around quite that much, unless of course they were on an illegal jaunt to Disneyland.

The fairy fort was crammed with full-moon overnighters complaining about the shuttle suspensions. A beleaguered sprite was sheltering behind her ticket desk, besieged by angry gremlins.

"There’s no point hexing me," squealed the sprite, "there’s the elf you want right there."

She pointed a quivering green finger at the approaching commander. The gremlin mob turned on Root, and when they saw the triple-barreled blaster on his hip, they kept right on turning.

Root grabbed the microphone from behind the desk, and hauled it out to the extent of its cable.

"Now hear this," he growled, his gravelly tones echoing around the terminal. "This is Commander Root of the LEP. We have a serious situation above ground, and I would appreciate cooperation from all you civilians. First, I would like you all to stop your yapping so I can hear myself think!"

Root paused to make certain his wishes were being respected. They were.

"Secondly, I would like every single one of you, including those squawling infants, to sit down on the courtesy benches until I have gone on my way. Then you can get back to griping or stuffing your faces. Or whatever else it is civilians do."

No one had ever accused Root of political correctness. No one was ever likely to either.

"And I want whoever’s in charge to get over here. Now!"

Root tossed the stand on to the desk. A blare of whistling feedback grated on every eardrum in the building. Within fractions of a second, an out-of-breath elf/goblin hybrid was bobbing at his elbow.

"Anything we can do, Commander?"

Root nodded, twisting a thick cigar into the hole beneath his nose.

"I want you to open a tunnel straight through this place. I don’t want to be bothered by Customs or Immigration. Start moving everybody below after my boys get here."

The shuttle port director swallowed. "Everybody?"

"Yes. That includes terminal personnel. And take everything you can carry. Full evacuation." He stopped and glared into the director’s mauve eyes. "This is not a drill."

"You mean—"

"Yes," said Root, continuing down the access ramp. "The Mud People have committed an overtly hostile act. Who knows where this is going?"

The elf/goblin combo watched as Root disappeared in a cloud of cigar smoke. An overtly hostile act? It could mean war. He punched in his accountant’s number on his mobile.

"Bark? Yes. This is Nimbus. I want you to sell all my shares in the shuttle port. Yes, all of them. I have a hunch the price is about to take a severe dive."

Captain Holly Short felt as though a sucker slug was drawing her brain out through her earhole. She tried to figure out what could possibly have caused such agony, but her faculties didn’t stretch to memory just yet. Breathing and lying down were about all she could manage.

Time to attempt a word. Something short and pertinent. Help, she decided, would be the one to go for. She took a trembling breath and opened her mouth.

"Mummlp," said her treacherous lips. No good. Incomprehensible even by a drunken gnome’s standards.

What was going on here? She was flat on her back with no more strength in her body than a damp tunnel root. What could have done this to her? Holly concentrated, skirting the edge of blinding pain.

The troll? Was that it? Had the troll mauled her in that restaurant? That would explain a lot. But no. She seemed to remember something about the old country. And the Ritual. And there was something digging into her ankle.

"Hello?"

A voice. Not hers. Not even elfin.

"You awake, then?"

One of the European languages. Latin. No, English. She was in England?

"I thought the dart might have killed you. Aliens’ insides are different from ours. I saw that on television."

Gibberish. Aliens’ insides? What was the creature talking about?

"You look fit. Like Muchacho Maria, she’s a Mexican midget wrestler."

Holly groaned. Her gift of tongues must be on the blink. Time to see exactly what kind of craziness she was dealing with here. Focusing all her strength at the front of her head, Holly cracked open one eye. She closed it again almost immediately. There appeared to be a giant blond fly staring down at her.

"Don’t be scared," said the fly. "Just sunglasses."

Holly opened both eyes this time. The creature was tapping a silver eye. No, not an eye. A lens. A mirrored lens. Like the lenses worn by the other two . . . It all came back in a jolt, rushing to fill the hole in her memory like a combination lock clicking into place. She had been abducted by two humans during the Ritual. Two humans with an extraordinary knowledge of fairy affairs.

Holly tried speaking again. "Where . . . where am I?"

The human giggled delightedly, clapping her hands together. Holly noticed her nails, long and painted.

"You can speak English. What sort of accent is that? Sounds like a little bit of everything."

Holly frowned. The girl’s voice was corkscrewing right to the middle of her headache. She lifted her arm. No locator.

"Where are my things?"

The girl wagged her finger, as one might at a naughty child.

"Artemis had to take your little gun away, and all those other toys. Couldn’t have you hurting yourself."

"Artemis?"

"Artemis Fowl. This was all his idea. Everything is always his idea."

Holly frowned. Artemis Fowl. For some reason, even the name made her shiver. It was a bad omen. Fairy intuition was never wrong.

"They’ll come for me, you know," she said, her voice rasping through dry lips. "You don’t know what you’ve done."

The girl frowned. "You’re absolutely right. I have no clue what’s going on. So there’s no future in trying to psych me out."

Holly frowned. It was obviously pointless playing mind games with this human. The mesmer was her only hope, but that couldn’t penetrate reflective surfaces. How the devil did these humans know that? That could be worked out later. For now she had to figure a way to separate this vacuous girl from her mirrored sunglasses.

"You are a pretty human," she said, voice dripping with honeyed flattery.

"Why, thank you . . . ?"

"Holly."

"Why, thank you, Holly. I was in the local paper once. I won a competition. Miss Sugar Beet Fair Nineteen Ninety-Nine."

"I knew it. Natural beauty. I’ll bet your eyes are spectacular."

"So everyone tells me." Juliet nodded. "Lashes like clock springs."

Holly sighed. "If only I could see them."

"Why ever not?"

Juliet’s fingers curled around the glasses’ stem. Then she hesitated.

"Maybe I shouldn’t."

"Why not? Just for a second."

"I don’t know. Artemis told me never to take these off."

"He’d never know."

Juliet pointed to a viewcam mounted on the wall.

"Oh, he’d find out. Artemis finds out about everything." She leaned in close to the fairy. "Sometimes I think he can see inside my head, too."

Holly frowned. Foiled again by this Artemis creature.

"Come on. One second. What harm could it do?"

Juliet pretended to think about it. "None, I suppose. Unless of course you’re hoping to nail me with the mesmer. Just how stupid do you think I am?"

"I have another idea," said Holly, her tone altogether more serious. "Why don’t I get up, knock you out, and take those stupid glasses off?"

Juliet laughed delightedly, as if this was the most ridiculous thing she had ever heard.

"Good one, fairy girl."

"I’m deadly serious, human."

"Well, if you’re serious," sighed Juliet, reaching a delicate finger behind her lenses to wipe away a tear, "two reasons. One, Artemis said that while you’re in a human dwelling, you have to do what we want. And I want you to stay on that cot."

Holly closed her eyes. Right again. Where did this group get their information?

"And two." Juliet smiled again, but this time there was a hint of her brother in those teeth. "Two, because I went through the same training as Butler, and I’ve been dying for somebody to practice my pile driver on."

We’ll see about that, human, thought Holly. Captain Short wasn’t a hundred percent yet, and there was also the small matter of the thing digging into her ankle. She thought she knew what it could be, and if she was right, then it could be the beginnings of a plan.

Commander Root had Holly’s locator frequency keyed into his helmet face screen. It took Root longer than expected to reach Dublin. The modern wing rigs were more complicated than he was used to, plus he’d neglected to take refresher courses. At the right altitude, he could almost superimpose the luminous map on his visor over the actual Dublin streets below him. Almost.

"Foaly, you pompous centaur," he barked into his mouthpiece.

"Problem, bossman?" came the tinny reply.

"Problem? You can say that again. When was the last time you updated the Dublin files?"

Root could hear sucking noises in his ear. It sounded as though Foaly was having lunch.

"Sorry, Commander. Just finishing off this carrot. Ahm . . . Dublin, let’s see. Seventy-five . . . Eighteen seventy-five."

"I thought so! This place is completely different. The humans have even managed to change the shape of the coastline."

Foaly was silent for a moment. Root could just imagine him wrestling with the problem. The centaur did not like to be told that any part of his system was out of date.

"Okay," he said at last. "Here’s what I’m going to do. We have a Scope on a satellite TV bird with a footprint in Ireland."

"I see," muttered Root—which was basically a lie.

"I’m going to e-mail last week’s sweep direct to your visor. Luckily there’s a video card in all the new helmets."

"Luckily."

"The tricky bit will be to coordinate your flight pattern with the video feed. . . ."

Root had had enough. "How long, Foaly?"

"Ahm . . . Two minutes, give or take."

"Give or take what?"

"About ten years if my calculations are off."

"They’d better not be off then. I’ll hover until we know."

One hundred and twenty-four seconds later, Root’s black-and-white blueprints faded out, to be replaced by full-color daylight imaging. When Root moved, it moved, and Holly’s locator beacon dot moved too.

"Impressive," said Root.

"What was that, Commander?"

"I said impressive," shouted Root. "No need to get a swelled head."

The commander heard the sound of a roomful of laughter, and realized that Foaly had him on the speakers. Everyone had heard him complimenting the centaur’s work. There’d be no talking to him for at least a month. But it was worth it. The video he was receiving now was bang up to date. If Captain Short was being held in a building, the computer would be able to give him 3D blueprints instantaneously. It was foolproof. Except . . .

"Foaly, the beacon’s gone off shore. What’s going on?"

"Boat or ship, sir, I’d say at a guess."

Root cursed himself for not thinking of it. They’d be having a big laugh in the situation room. Of course it was a ship. Root dropped down a few hundred feet until its shadowy outline loomed through the mist. A whaler by the looks of it. Technology may have changed over the centuries, but there was still nothing like a harpoon to slaughter the world’s largest mammal.

"Captain Short is in there somewhere, Foaly. Below decks. What can you give me?"

"Nothing, sir. It’s not a permanent fixture. By the time we’ve run down her registration, it’d be way too late."

"What about thermal imaging?"

"No, Commander. That hull must be at least fifty years old. Very high lead content. We can’t even penetrate the first layer. I’m afraid you’re on your own."

Root shook his head. "After all the billions we’ve poured into your department. Remind me to slash your budget when I get back."

"Yes, sir," came the reply, sullen for once. Foaly did not like budget jokes.

"Just have the Retrieval Squad on full alert. I may need them at a moment’s notice."

"I will, sir."

"You’d better. Over and out."

Root was on his own. Truth be told, that was the way he liked it. No science. No uppity centaur whinnying in his ear. Just a fairy, his wits, and maybe a touch of magic.

Root tilted his polymer wings, hugging the underside of a fogbank. There was no need to be careful. With his shield activated, he was invisible to the human eye. Even on stealth-sensitive radar he would be no more than a barely perceptible distortion. The commander swooped low to the gunwales. It was an ugly craft, this one. The smell of death and pain lingered in the blood-swabbed decks. Many noble creatures had died here, died and been dissected for a few bars of soap and some heating oil. Root shook his head. Humans were such barbarians.

Holly’s beeper was flashing urgently now. She was close by. Very close. Somewhere within a two-hundred-foot radius was the hopefully still-breathing form of Captain Short. But without blueprints he would have to navigate the belly of this ship unaided.

Root alighted gently on the deck, his boots adhering slightly to the mixture of dried soap and blubber coating the steel surface. The craft appeared to be deserted. No sentry on the gangplank, no bosun on the bridge, not a light anywhere. Still, no reason to abandon caution. Root knew from bitter experience that humans popped up when you least expected them. Once, when he was helping the Retrieval boys scrape some pod wreckage off a tunnel wall, they were spotted by a group of potholing humans. What a mess that had been. Mass hysteria, high-speed chases, group mind wipes. The whole nine yards. Root shuddered. Nights like that could put decades on a fairy.

Keeping himself fully shielded, the commander stowed his wings in their sheath, advancing on foot across the deck. There were no other life-forms showing up on his screen but, like Foaly said, the hull had a high lead content, even the paint was lead based! The entire boat was a floating eco hazard. The point being that there could be an entire battalion of stormtroopers concealed below decks, and his helmetcam would never pick them up. Very reassuring. Even Holly’s beacon was a few shades below par, and that had a micro nuclear battery sending out the pulses. Root didn’t like this. Not one bit. Keep calm, he derided himself. You’re shielded. There’s not a human alive that can see you now.

Root hauled open the first hatch. It swung easily enough. The commander sniffed. The Mud People had greased the hinges with whale blubber. Was there no end to their depravity?

The corridor was steeped in viscous darkness, so Root flicked down his infrared filter. Okay, so sometimes technology did come in handy, but he wouldn’t be telling Foaly that. The maze of pipes and grilling before him was immediately illuminated with an unnatural red light. Minutes later, he was regretting even thinking something nice about the centaur’s technology. The infrared filter was messing with his depth perception and he’d whacked his head on two protruding U-bends so far.

Still no sign of life—human or fairy. Plenty of animal.

Mostly rodents. And when you’re just topping three feet in height yourself, a good-sized rat can be a real threat, especially since rats are one of the few breeds that can see straight through a fairy shield. Root unstrapped his blaster and set it to level three, or medium rare, as the elves in the locker room called it. He sent one of the rats scurrying away with a smoking behind as a warning to the rest. Nothing fatal, just enough to teach him not to look sideways at a fairy in a hurry again.

Root picked up his pace. This place was ideal for an ambush. He was virtually blind with his back to the only exit. A Recon nightmare. If one of his own men had pulled a stunt like this, he’d have their stripes for it. But desperate times required judicious risk-taking. That was the essence of command.

He ignored several doors to either side, following the beacon. Ten feet now. A steel hatch sealed the corridor, and Captain Short, or her corpse, lay on the other side of it.

Root put his shoulder to the door. It swung open without protest. Bad news. If a live creature were being held captive, the hatch would have been locked. The commander flicked the blaster’s power level to five and advanced through the hole. His weapon hummed softly. There was enough power on tap now to vaporize a bull elephant with a single blast.

No sign of Holly. No sign of anything much. He was in a refrigerated storage bay. Glittering stalactites hung from a maze of piping. Root’s breath fanned before him in icy clouds. How would that look to a human? Disembodied breathing.

"Ah," said a familiar voice. "We have a visitor."

Root dropped to one knee, leveling the handgun at the voice’s source.

"Come to rescue your missing officer, no doubt."

The commander blinked a bead of sweat from his eye. Sweat? At this temperature?

"Well, I’m afraid you’ve come to the wrong place."

The voice was tinny. Artificial. Amplified. Root checked his locator for life signs. There were none. Not in this chamber at any rate. He was being monitored somehow. Was there a camera here somewhere, concealed in the maze of overhead plumbing, that could penetrate the fairy shield?

"Where are you? Show yourself!"

The human chuckled. It echoed unnaturally around the vast hold.

"Oh, no. Not yet, my fairy friend. But soon enough. And believe me, when I do, you’ll wish I hadn’t."

Root followed the voice. Keep the human talking.

"What do you want?"

"Hmm. What do I want? Again, you will know soon enough."

There was a low crate in the center of the hold. On it sat an attaché case. The case was open.

"Why bring me here at all?"

Root poked the case with his pistol. Nothing happened.

"I brought you here for a demonstration."

The commander leaned over the open container. Inside, in snug foam packing, were a flat vacuum-packed package and a triple-band VHF transmitter. Resting on top was Holly’s locator. Root groaned. Holly wouldn’t willingly give up her equipment; no LEP officer would.

"What sort of demonstration, you demented freak?"

Again that cold chuckle.

"A demonstration of my utter commitment to my goals."

Root should have started to worry about his own health then, but he was too busy worrying about Holly’s.

"If you’ve harmed one tip of my officer’s pointy ears ..."

"Your officer? Oh, we have management. How privileged. All the better to make my point."

Alarm bells went off in Root’s head.

"Your point?"

The voice emanating from the aluminium speaker grid was as serious as a nuclear winter.

"My point, little fairy man, is that I am not someone to be trifled with. Now, if you would please observe the package."

The commander duly observed. It was a nondescript enough shape. Flat, like a slab of putty, or . . . Oh no.

Beneath the sealant, a red light flicked on.

"Fly, little fairy," said the voice. "And tell your friends Artemis Fowl the Second says hello."

Beside the red light, green symbols began to click through a routine. Root recognized them from his human studies class back in the Academy. They were . . . numbers. Going backward. A countdown!

"D’Arvit!" growled Root. (There is no point translating that word, as it would have to be censored.)

He turned and fled up the corridor, Artemis Fowl’s mocking tones carrying down the metal funnel.

"Three," said the human. "Two . . ."

"D’Arvit," repeated Root.

The corridor seemed much longer, now. A sliver of starry sky peeked through a wedge of open door. Root activated his wings—this would take some fancy flying. The Hummingbird’s span was barely narrower than the ship’s corridor.

"One."

Sparks flew as the electronic wings scraped a protruding pipe. Root cartwheeled, righting himself at Mach one.

"Zero . . ." said the voice. "Boom!"

Inside the vacuum-packed package, a detonator sparked, igniting a kilogram of pure Semtex. The whitehot reaction devoured the surrounding oxygen in a nanosecond and surged down the path of least resistance, which was, of course, immediately after LEP Commander Root.

Root dropped his visor, opening the throttle to maximum. The door was just a few feet away now. It was just a matter of what reached it first—the fairy or the fireball.

He made it. Barely. He could feel the explosion rattling his torso as he threw himself into a reverse loop. Flames latched on to his jumpsuit, licking along his legs. Root continued his maneuver, crashing directly into the icy water. He broke the surface swearing.

Above him, the whaler had been totally consumed by noxious flames.

"Commander," came a voice in his earpiece. It was Foaly. He was back in range.

"Commander. What’s your status?"

Root lifted free of the water’s grip.

"My status, Foaly, is extremely annoyed. Get on your computers. I want to know everything there is to know about one Artemis Fowl, and I want to know it before I get back to base."

"Yessir, Commander. Right away."

No wisecrack. Even Foaly realized that this was not the time.

Root hovered at three hundred yards. Below him the blazing whaler drew emergency vehicles like moths to a light. He dusted charred threads from his elbows. There will be a reckoning for this Artemis Fowl, he vowed. Count on it.





CHAPTER 6

SIEGE




Artemis leaned back in the study’s leather swivel chair, smiling over steepled fingers. Perfect. That little explosion should cure those fairies of their cavalier attitude. Plus there was one less whaler in the world. Artemis Fowl did not like whalers. There were less objectionable ways to produce oil by-products.

The pinhole camera concealed in the locator had worked perfectly. With its high-resolution images he had picked out the fairy’s telltale breath crystals.

Artemis consulted the basement surveillance monitor. His captive was sitting on the cot now, head in hands. Artemis frowned. He hadn’t expected the fairy to appear so . . . human. Until now, they had merely been quarry. Animals to be hunted. But now, seeing one like this, in obvious discomfort—it changed things.

Artemis put the computer to sleep and crossed to the main doors. Time for a little chat with their guest. Just as his fingers alighted on the brass handles, the door flew open before him. Juliet appeared in the doorway, cheeks flushed from haste.

"Artemis," she gasped. "Your mother. She . . ."

Artemis felt a lead ball drop in his stomach.

"Yes?"

"Well, she says, Artemis . . . Artemis, that your . . ."

"Yes, Juliet. For heaven’s sake, what is it?"

Juliet placed both hands over her mouth, composing herself. After several seconds she parted spangled nails, speaking through her fingers.

"It’s your father, sir. Artemis Senior. Madam Fowl says he’s come back!"

For a split second, Artemis could have sworn his heart had stopped. Father? Back? Was it possible? Of course he’d always believed his father was alive. But lately, since he’d hatched this fairy scheme, it was almost as if his father had shifted to the back of his mind. Artemis felt guilt churn his stomach. He had given up. Given up on his own father.

"Did you see him, Juliet? With your own eyes?"

The girl shook her head.

"No, Artemis, sir. I just heard voices. In the bedroom. But she won’t let me through the door. Not for anything. Not even with a hot drink."

Artemis calculated. They had returned barely an hour ago. His father could have slipped past Juliet. It was possible. Just possible. He glanced at his watch, synchronized with Greenwich Mean Time by constantly updated radio signals. Three A.M. Time was ticking on. His entire plan depended on the fairies making their next move before daylight.

Artemis started. He was doing it again, pushing family to one side. What was he becoming? His father was the priority here, not some moneymaking scheme.

Juliet was still in the doorway, watching him with those enormous blue eyes. She was waiting for him to make a decision, as he always did. And for once, there was indecision scrawled across his pale features.

"Very well," he mumbled eventually. "I had better go up there immediately."

Artemis brushed past the girl, taking the steps two at a time. His mother’s room was two flights up, a converted attic space.

He hesitated at the door. What would he say if it was his father miraculously returned? What would he do? It was ridiculous dithering about it. Impossible to predict. He knocked lightly.

"Mother?"

No response, but he thought he heard a giggle and was instantly transported into the past. Initially this room had been his parents’ lounge. They would sit on the chaise longue for hours, tittering like schoolchildren, feeding the pigeons or watching the ships sailing past on Dublin sound. When Artemis Senior had disappeared, Angeline Fowl had become more and more attached to the space, eventually refusing to leave altogether.

"Mother? Are you all right?"

Muffled voices from within. Conspiratorial whispers.

"Mother. I’m coming in."

"Wait a moment. Timmy, stop it, you beast. We have company."

Timmy? Artemis’s heart thumped like a snare drum in his chest. Timmy, her pet name for his father. Timmy and Arty. The two men in her life. He could wait no longer. Artemis burst through the double doors.

His first impression was of light. Mother had the lamps on. A good sign surely. Artemis knew where his mother would be. He knew exactly where to look. But he couldn’t. What if . . . What if . . .

"Yes, can we help you?"

Artemis turned, his eyes still downcast. "It’s me."

His mother laughed. Airy and carefree.

"I can see it’s you, Papa. Can’t you even give your boy one night off? It is our honeymoon after all."

Artemis knew then. It was just an escalation of her madness. Papa? Angeline thought Artemis was his own grandfather. Dead over ten years. He raised his gaze slowly.

His mother was seated on the chaise longue, resplendent in her own wedding dress, face clumsily coated with makeup. But that wasn’t the worst of it.

Beside her was a facsimile of his father, constructed from the morning suit he’d worn on that glorious day in Christchurch Cathedral fourteen years ago. The clothes were padded with tissue, and atop the dress shirt was a stuffed pillowcase with lipstick features. It was almost funny. Artemis choked back a sob, his hopes vanishing like a summer rainbow.

"What do you say, Papa?" said Angeline in a deep bass, nodding the pillow like a ventriloquist manipulating her dummy. "One night off for your boy, eh?"

Artemis nodded. What else could he do?

"One night then. Take tomorrow, too. Be happy."

Angeline’s face radiated honest joy. She sprang from the couch, embracing her unrecognized son.

"Thank you, Papa. Thank you."

Artemis returned the embrace, though it felt like cheating.

"You’re welcome, Mo—Angeline. Now, I must be off. Business to attend to."

His mother settled beside her imitation husband.

"Yes, Papa. You go, don’t worry, we can keep ourselves amused."

Artemis left. He didn’t look back. There were things to be done. Fairies to be extorted. He had no time for his mother’s fantasy world.


Captain Holly Short was holding her head in her hands.

One hand to be precise. The other was scrabbling down the side of her boot, on the camera’s blind side. In actuality her head was crystal clear, but it would do no harm for the enemy to believe her still out of action. Perhaps they would underestimate her. And that would be the last mistake they ever made.

Holly’s fingers closed around the object that had been digging into her ankle. She knew immediately by its contours what was concealed there. The acorn! It must have slipped into her boot during all the commotion by the oak. This could be a vital development. All she needed was a small patch of earth—then her powers would be restored.

Holly glanced surreptitiously around the cell. Fresh concrete, by the looks of it. Not a single crack or flaky corner. Nowhere to bury her secret weapon. Holly stood tentatively, trying out her legs for stability. Not too bad, a bit shaky around the knees, but otherwise sound enough. She crossed to the wall, pressing her cheek and palms to the smooth surface. The concrete was fresh all right, very recent. Still damp in patches. Obviously her prison had been specially prepared.

"Looking for something?"said a voice. A cold, heartless voice.

Holly reared back from the wall. The human boy was standing not two feet from her, his eyes hidden behind mirrored glasses. He had entered the room without a sound. Extraordinary.

"Sit, please."

Holly did not want to sit, please. What she wanted to do was incapacitate this insolent pup with her elbow and use his miserable hide for leverage. Artemis could see it in her eyes. It amused him.

"Getting ideas, are we, Captain Short?"

Holly bared her teeth, it was answer enough.

"We are both fully aware of the rules here, Captain. This is my house. You must abide by my wishes. Your laws, not mine. Obviously my wishes do not include bodily harm to myself, or your attempting to leave this house."

It hit Holly then.

"How do you know my—"

"Your name? Your rank?"Artemis smiled, though there was no joy in it. "If you wear a name tag . . ."

Holly’s hand unconsciously covered the silver tag on her suit.

"But that’s written in—"

"Gnommish. I know. I happen to be fluent. As is everyone in my network."

Holly was silent for a moment, processing this momentous revelation.

"Fowl," she said with feeling. "You have no idea what you’ve done. Bringing the worlds together like this could mean disaster for us all."

Artemis shrugged. "I am not concerned with us all, just myself. And believe me, I shall be perfectly fine. Now, sit, please."

Holly sat, never taking her hazel eyes from the diminutive monster before her.

"So what is this master plan, Fowl? Let me guess— world domination?"

"Nothing so melodramatic," chuckled Artemis."Just riches."

"A thief!" spat Holly. "You’re just a thief!"

Annoyance flashed across Artemis’s features, only to be replaced by his customary sardonic grin.

"Yes. A thief if you like. Hardly just a thief, though. The world’s first cross-species thief."

Captain Short snorted. "First cross-species thief! Mud People have been stealing from us for millennia. Why do you think we live underground?"

"True. But I will be first to successfully separate a fairy from its gold."

"Gold? Gold? Human idiot. You don’t honestly believe that crock-of-gold nonsense. Some things aren’t true, you know." Holly threw her head back and laughed.

Artemis checked his nails patiently, waiting for her to finish. When the gales had finally subsided, he shook his index finger.

"You are right to laugh, Captain Short. For a while there, I did believe in all that under-the-rainbow crock-of-gold blarney, but now I know better. Now I know about the hostage fund."

Holly struggled to keep her face under control.

"What hostage fund?"

"Oh, come now, Captain. Why bother with the charade? You told me about it yourself."

"I—I told you!" stammered Holly. "Ridiculous!"

"Look at your arm."

Holly rolled up her right sleeve. There was a small cotton pad taped to the vein.

"That’s where we administered the sodium pentathol. Commonly known as truth serum. You sang like a bird."

Holly knew it was true. How else could he know?

"You’re crazy!"

Artemis nodded indulgently. "If I win, I’m a prodigy. If I lose, then I’m crazy. That’s the way history is written."

Of course, there had been no sodium pentathol, just a harmless prick with a sterilized needle. Artemis would not risk causing brain damage to his meal ticket, nor could he afford to reveal the Book as the source of his information. Better to let the hostage believe that she had betrayed her own people. It would lower her morale, making her more susceptible to his mind games. Still, the ruse disturbed him. It was undeniably cruel. How far was he prepared to go for this gold? He didn’t know, and wouldn’t until the time came.

Holly slumped, momentarily defeated by this latest development. She had talked. Revealed sacred secrets. Even if she did manage to escape, she would be banished to some freezing tunnel under the Arctic Circle.

"This isn’t over, Fowl," she said at last. "We have powers you can’t possibly know about. It would take days to describe them all."

The infuriating boy laughed again. "How long do you think you’ve been here?"

Holly groaned; she knew what was coming. "A few hours?"

Artemis shook his head. "Three days," he lied. "We’ve had you on a drip for over sixty hours . . . until you told us everything we needed to know."

Even as the words came out, Artemis felt guilty. These mind games were having an obvious effect on Holly, destroying her from the inside out. Was there really a need for this?

"Three days? You could have killed me. What kind of ..."

And it was that speechless quality that sent the doubt shooting through Artemis’s brain. The fairy thought him so evil, she couldn’t even find the words.

Holly pulled herself together.

"Well then, Master Fowl," she spat, heavy on the contempt, "if you know so much about us, then you know what happens when they locate me."

Artemis nodded absently. "Oh yes, I know. In fact, I’m counting on it."

It was Holly’s turn to grin.

"Oh really. Tell me, boy, have you ever met a troll?"

For the first time, the human’s confidence dropped a notch.

"No. Never a troll."

Holly showed more teeth.

"You will, Fowl. You will. And I hope I’m there to see it."

The LEP had established a surface Ops HQ at E1: Tara.

"Well?" said Root, slapping at a paramedic gremlin who was applying burn salve to his forehead. "Leave it. The magic will sort me out soon enough."

"Well, what?" replied Foaly.

"Don’t give me any of your lip today, Foaly, because today is not one of those Oh-I’m-so-impressed-with-the-pony’s-technology days. Tell me what you found on the human."

Foaly scowled, securing his foil hat between curled horns. He flipped the top on a wafer-thin laptop.

"I hacked into Interpol. Not too difficult, I can tell you. They might as well have put out a welcome mat. . . ."

Root drummed his fingers on the conference table. "Get on with it."

"Right. Fowl. Ten-gigabyte file. In paper terms, that’s half a library."

The commander whistled. "That’s one busy human."

"Family," corrected Foaly. "The Fowls have been subverting justice for generations. Racketeering, smuggling, armed robbery. Mostly corporate crime last century."

"So do we have a location?"

"That was the easy part. Fowl Manor. On a two-hundred-acre estate on the outskirts of Dublin. Fowl Manor is only about twenty klicks from our current location."

Root chewed his bottom lip.

"Only twenty? That means we could make it before first light."

"Yep. Sort out this whole mess before it gets out of hand in the rays of the sun."

The commander nodded. This was their first break. Fairies had not operated in natural light for centuries. Even when they had lived above ground, they were essentially night creatures. The sun diluted their magic like bleaching a photograph. If they had to wait another day before sending in a strike force, who knew what damage Fowl could achieve?

It was even possible that this whole affair was media-oriented, and by tomorrow evening Captain Short’s face would be on the cover of every publication on the planet. Root shuddered. That would spell the end of everything, unless the Mud People had learned to coexist with other species. And if history had taught any lessons it was that humans couldn’t get along with anyone, even themselves.

"Right. Everyone, lock and load. V flight pattern. Establish a perimeter inside the Manor grounds."

The Retrieval Squad roared military-type affirmatives, coaxing as many metallic noises from their weapons as possible.

"Foaly, round up the techies. Follow us in the shuttle. And bring the big dishes. We’ll shut down the entire estate, give ourselves a bit of breathing room."

"One thing, Commander," mused Foaly.

"Yes?" said Root impatiently.

"Why did this human tell us who he was? He must have known we could find him."

Root shrugged. "Maybe he’s not as clever as he thinks he is."

"No. I don’t think that’s it. I don’t think that’s it at all. I think he’s been one step ahead of us all the way, and this is no different."

"I don’t have time for theorizing now, Foaly. First light is approaching."

"One more thing, Commander."

"Is this important?"

"Yes, I think it is."

"Well?"

Foaly tapped a key on his laptop, scrolling through Artemis’s vital statistics.

"This criminal mastermind, the one behind this elaborate scheme . . ."

"Yes, what about him?"

Foaly looked up, an almost admiring look in his golden eyes.

"Well, he’s only twelve years old. And that’s young, even for a human."

Root snorted, jacking a new battery into his tribarreled blaster.

"Too much damned TV. Thinks he’s Sherlock Holmes."

"That’s Professor Moriarty," corrected Foaly.

"Holmes, Moriarty, they both look the same with the flesh scorched off their skulls."

And with that elegant parting response, Root followed his squad into the night air.

The Retrieval Squad adopted the V goose formation with Root on point. They flew southwest, following the video feed e-mailed to their helmets. Foaly had even marked Fowl Manor with a red dot. Idiot-proof, he’d muttered into his mouthpiece, just loud enough for the commander to hear him.

The centerpiece of the Fowl estate was a renovated late-medieval/early-modern castle, built by Lord Hugh Fowl in the fifteenth century.

The Fowls had held on to Fowl Manor over the years, surviving war, civil unrest, and several tax audits. Artemis did not intend to be the one to lose it.

The estate was ringed by a ten-foot crenelated stone wall, complete with the original guard towers and walkways. The Retrieval Squad put down just inside the boundary and began an immediate scan for possible hostiles.

"Fifty feet apart," instructed Root. "Sweep the area. Check in every sixty seconds. Clear?"

Retrieval nodded. Of course it was clear. They were professionals.

Lieutenant Cudgeon, Retrieval Squad’s leader, climbed a guard tower.

"You know what we should do, Julius?"

He and Root had been in the Academy together, brought up in the same tunnel. Cudgeon was one of perhaps five fairies who called Root by his first name.

"I know what you think we should do."

"We should blast the whole place."

"What a surprise."

"The cleanest way. One blue rinse and our losses are minimum."

Blue rinse was the slang term for the devastating biological bomb used on rare occasions by the force. The clever thing about a bio-bomb was that it destroyed only living tissue. The landscape was unchanged.

"That minimum loss you’re talking about happens to be one of my officers."

"Oh yes," tutted Cudgeon. "A female Recon officer. The test case. Well, I don’t think you’ll have any problem justifying a tactical solution."

Root’s face took on that familiar purple hue.

"The best thing you can do right now is stay out of my way, or else I may be forced to ram that blue rinse straight into that morass you call a brain."

Cudgeon was unperturbed. "Insulting me doesn’t change the facts, Julius. You know what the Book says. We cannot under any circumstances allow the Lower Elements to be compromised. One time-stop is all you get, after that . . ."

The lieutenant didn’t finish his statement. He didn’t have to.

"I know what the Book says," snapped Root. "I just wish you weren’t so gung ho about it. If I didn’t know you better, I’d say there was some human blood in you."

"There’s no call for that," pouted Cudgeon. "I’m only doing my job."

"Point taken," conceded the commander. "I’m sorry."

You didn’t often hear Root apologizing, but then it had been a deeply offensive insult.

Butler was on monitors.

"Anything?" asked Artemis.

Butler started; he hadn’t heard the young master come in.

"No. Nothing. Once or twice I thought I saw a flicker, but it turned out to be nothing."

"Nothing is nothing," commented Artemis cryptically. "Use the new camera."

Butler nodded. Only last month, Master Fowl had purchased a cinecamera over the Internet. Two thousand frames a second, recently developed by Industrial Light and Magic for specialized nature shoots, hummingbird wings, and such. It processed images faster than the human eye could. Artemis had had it installed behind a cherub over the main entrance.

Butler activated the joypad.

"Where?"

"Try the avenue. I have a feeling visitors are on the way."

The manservant manipulated the toothpick-sized stick with his massive fingers. A live image sprang into life on the digital monitor.

"Nothing," muttered Butler. "Quiet as the grave."

Artemis pointed to the control desk.

"Freeze it."

Butler nearly questioned the order. Nearly. Instead he held his tongue and pressed the pad. On screen, the cherry trees froze, blossoms trapped in midair. More important, a dozen or so black-clad figures suddenly appeared on the avenue.

"What!" exclaimed Butler. "Where did they spring from?"

"They’re shielded," explained Artemis. "Vibrating at high speed. Too fast for the human eye to follow . . ."

"But not for the camera," nodded Butler. Master Artemis. Always two steps ahead. "If only I could carry it around with me."

"If only. But we do have the next best thing. . . ."

Artemis lifted a headset gingerly from the workbench. It was the remains of Holly’s helmet. Obviously, trying to cram Butler’s head into the original helmet would be like trying to fit a potato into a thimble. Only the visor and control buttons were intact. Straps from a hard hat had been rigged to fit the manservant’s cranium.

"This thing is equipped with several filters. It stands to reason that one of them is anti-shield. Let’s try it out, shall we?"

Artemis placed the set over Butler’s ears.

"Obviously, with your eye span, there are going to be blind spots, but that shouldn’t hamper you unduly. Now, run the camera."

Butler set the camera rolling again, while Artemis slotted down one filter after another.

"Now?"

"No."

"Now ..."

"Everything’s gone red. Ultraviolet. No fairies."

"Now?"

"No. Polaroid, I think."

"Last one."

Butler smiled. A shark that’s spotted a bare behind.

,

"Got em."

Butler was seeing the world as it was, complete with LEPretrieval team sweeping the avenue.

"Hmm," said Artemis. "Strobe variation, I would guess. Very high frequency."

"I see," fibbed Butler.

"Metaphorically or literally?" His employer smiled.

"Exactly."

Artemis shook himself. More jokes. Next thing he’d be wearing clown shoes and turning cartwheels in the main hall.

"Very well, Butler. Time for you to do what you do best. We appear to have intruders in the grounds. . . ."

Butler stood. No further instructions were necessary. He tightened the hard-hat straps, striding brusquely to the door.

"Oh, and, Butler . . ."

"Yes, Artemis?"

"I prefer scared to dead. If possible."

Butler nodded. If possible.

LEPretrieval One were the best and the brightest. It was every little fairy’s dream that one day he would grow up to don the stealth-black jumpsuit of the Retrieval commandos. These were the elite. Trouble was their middle name. In the case of Captain Kelp, Trouble was actually his first name. He’d insisted on it at his manhood ceremony, having just been accepted into the Academy.

Trouble led his team down the sweeping avenue. As usual, he took the point position himself, determined to be the first into the fray if, as he fervently hoped, a fray developed.

"Check in," he whispered into the mike that wound snakelike from his helmet.

"Negative on one."

"Nothing, Captain."

"A big negatori, Trouble."

Captain Kelp winced.

"We’re in the field, Corporal. Follow procedure."

"But Mommy said!"

"I don’t care what Mommy said, Corporal! Rank is rank! You will refer to me as Captain Kelp."

"Yessir, Captain," sulked the corporal. "But don’t ask me to iron your tunic anymore."

Trouble zeroed in on his brother’s channel, shutting out the rest of the squad.

"Shut up about Mommy, will you? And the ironing. You’re only on this mission because I requested you! Now start acting like a professional or get back to the perimeter!"

"Okay, Trubs."

"Trouble!" shouted Captain Kelp. "It’s Trouble. Not Trubs, or Trub. Trouble! Okay?"

"Okay. Trouble. Mommy’s right. You’re only a baby."

Swearing very unprofessionally, Captain Kelp switched his headset back to the open channel. He was just in time to hear an unusual sound.

"Arrkk."

"What was that?"

"What?"

"Dunno."

"Nothing, Captain."

But Trouble had done a Sound Recognition in-service for his captain’s exam, and he was pretty sure the "Arrkk" had been caused by someone getting a chop across the windpipe. More than likely his brother had walked into a shrub.

"Grub? Are you all right?"

"That’s Corporal Grub to you."

Kelp viciously kicked a daisy.

"Check in. Sound off in sequence."

"One, Okay."

"Two, fine."

"Three, bored but alive."

"Five, approaching west wing."

Kelp froze."Wait. Four? You there, Four? What’s your situation?"

"................." Nothing except static.

"Right. Four is down. Possibly an equipment malfunction. Still, we can’t afford to take any chances. Regroup by the main door."

Retrieval One crept together, making slightly less noise than a silk spider. Kelp did a quick head count. Eleven. One short of a full complement. Four was probably wandering around the rose bushes, wondering why nobody was talking to him.

Then Trouble noticed two things—one, a pair of black boots was sticking out of a shrub beside the door, and two, there was a massive human standing in the doorway. The figure was cradling a very nasty-looking gun in the crook of his arm.

"Go silent," whispered Kelp, and immediately eleven full-face visors slid down to seal in the sounds of his squad’s breathing and communications.

"Now, nobody panic. I think I can trace the sequence of events here. Four is skulking around outside the door. The Mud Man opens it. Four gets a whack on the noggin and lands in the bushes. No problem. Our cover is intact. Repeat intact. So no itchy fingers, please. Grub . . . Sorry, Corporal Kelp, check Four’s vitals. The rest of you make a hole and keep it quiet."

The squad stepped back carefully, until they were standing on the manicured grassy verge. The figure before them was indeed impressive, without doubt the biggest human any of them had ever seen.

"D’Arvit," breathed Two.

"Maintain radio silence, except in emergencies," ordered Kelp. "Swearing is hardly an emergency." Secretly, however, he concurred with the sentiment. This was one time he was glad to be shielded. That man looked as if he could squash half a dozen fairies in one massive fist.

Grub returned to his slot. "Four is stable. Concussed, I’d guess. But otherwise okay. His shield’s off, though, so I stuffed him in the bushes."

"Well done, Corporal. Good thinking."

The last thing they needed was for Four’s boots to be spotted.

The man moved, lumbering casually along the path. He may have glanced left or right, it was difficult to tell beneath the hood pulled over his eyes. Odd for a human to wear a hood on such a fine night.

"Safety catches off," ordered Trouble.

He imagined his men rolling their eyes. Like they hadn’t had their safeties off for the last half an hour. Still, you had to go by the book, in case of a tribunal later on. There was a time when Retrieval blasted first and answered questions never. But not anymore. Now there was always some do-gooder civilian banging on about civil rights. Even for humans, if you can believe it.

The man mountain stopped, right in the middle of the squad. If he had been able to see them, it would be the perfect tactical position. Their own firearms were virtually useless, as they would probably do more damage to each other than the human.

Fortunately, the entire squad was invisible, with the exception of Four who was safely hidden in what appeared to be a rhododendron.

"Buzz batons. Fire ’em up."

Just in case. No harm in being cautious.

And when the LEP officers were switching weapons, right at that moment when their hands were fumbling with holsters, that’s when the Mud Man spoke.

"Evening, gentlemen," he said, sweeping back his hood.

Funny that, thought Trouble. It was almost as if . . . Then he saw the makeshift goggles.

"Cover!" he screamed. "Cover!"

But it was too late. No option but to stand and fight. And that was no option at all.

Butler could have taken them from the parapet. One at a time with the ivory hunter’s rifle. But that wasn’t the plan. This was all about making an impression. Sending a message. It was standard procedure with any police force in the world to send in the cannon fodder first before opening negotiations. It was almost expected that they would meet with resistance, and Butler was happy to oblige.

He peeked out through the letter box and, oh happy coincidence, there was a pair of goggled eyes peeking right back at him. It was just too fortuitous to pass up.

"Bedtime," said Butler, heaving the door with a mighty shoulder. The fairy flew several feet before alighting in the shrubbery. Juliet would be devastated. She loved rhododendrons. One down. Several to go.

Butler pulled up the peaked hood on his field jacket, stepping into the porch. There they were, spread out like a squadron of Action Men. If not for the array of very proficient-looking weaponry hanging from each belt, it would have been almost comical.

Sliding his finger casually under the trigger guard, Butler strode into their midst. The bulky one at two o’clock was giving the orders. You could tell from the heads angled his way.

The leader gave a command and the squad switched to close-quarters weapons. It made sense, they’d only cut themselves to pieces with firearms. Time for action.

"Evening, gentlemen," Butler said. He couldn’t help it, and it was worth it for that one moment of consternation. Then his gun was up and blazing.

Captain Kelp was the first casualty, a titanium-tipped dart puncturing the neck of his suit. He went down sluggishly, as though the air had turned to water. Two more of the squad were dropped before they had any idea what was going on.

It must be quite traumatic, thought Butler dispassionately, to lose an advantage that you’ve held for centuries.

By now, the remains of Retrieval One had their buzz batons fired up and raised. But they made the mistake of hanging back, waiting for a command that was not forthcoming. This gave Butler an opportunity to take the fight to them. As if he needed another advantage.

Even so, for a second the manservant hesitated. These beings were so small. Like children. Then Grub clipped him on the elbow with his buzz baton and a thousand volts spread across Butler’s chest. All sympathy for the little people vanished instantly.

Butler grabbed the offending baton, swinging weapon and bearer like a set of bolas. Grub squealed as he was released, his newfound momentum carrying him directly into three of his comrades.

Butler continued the swinging motion, driving punishing punches into the chests of two more fairies. Another clambered on to his back, stinging him repeatedly with the baton. Butler fell on him. Something cracked and the stinging stopped.

Suddenly there was a barrel under his chin. One of Retrieval had managed to get his weapon cocked.

"Freeze, Mud Boy," droned a helmet-filtered voice. It was a serious-looking gun, liquid coolant bubbled along its length. "Just give me a reason."

Butler rolled his eyes. Different race, same macho clichés. He slapped the fairy open-handed. To the little man it must have been like the sky falling on his head.

"That reason enough for you?"

Butler scrambled to his feet. Fairy bodies were scattered around him in various stages of shock and unconsciousness. Scared definitely. Dead, probably not. Mission accomplished.

One little guy was faking, though. You could tell by the way his tiny knees knocked together. Butler picked him up by the neck, finger and thumb easily meeting around the back.

"Name?"

"G-Grub . . . er, I mean Corporal Kelp."

"Well, Corporal, you tell your commander that the next time I see armed forces coming in here, they’ll be picked off by sniper fire. No darts either. Armor-piercing bullets."

"Yessir. Sniper fire. Got it. Seems fair."

"Good. You are, however, permitted to remove your injured."

"Most generous of you."

"But if I see so much as the twinkle of a weapon on any of the medics, I might be tempted to detonate a few of the mines I have planted in the grounds."

Grub swallowed, his pallor increasing behind the visor.

"Unarmed medics. Crystal clear."

Butler set the fairy down, brushing his tunic with massive fingers.

"Now. Final thing. Listening?"

Furious nods.

"I want a negotiator. Someone who can make decisions. Not some no-ranker who has to run off back to base after every demand. Understood?"

"Fine. That is, I’m sure it will be fine. Unfortunately I’m one of those no-rankers. So, you see, I can’t actually guarantee it will be fine. . . ."

Butler was sorely tempted to drop-kick this little fellow back to his camp.

"Very well. I understand. Just . . . shut up!"

Grub almost agreed, then he clamped his mouth shut and nodded.

"Good. Now, before you go, collect all weapons and helmets and make a little pile right there."

Grub took a deep breath. Ah well, may as well go out a hero.

"I can’t do that."

"Oh, really? And why not?"

Grub drew himself up to his full height. "An LEP officer never relinquishes his weapon."

Butler nodded. "Fair enough. Thought I’d ask. Off you go then."

Hardly able to believe his luck, Grub scurried back toward the command tower. He was the last fairy standing. Trouble was snoring in the gravel but he, Grub Kelp, had faced down the Mud Monster. Wait until Mommy heard about this.

Holly sat on the edge of her bed, fingers curled around the metal base. She lifted slowly, taking the weight on her arms. The strain threatened to pop her elbows from their sockets. She held it for a second, and then slammed the frame into the concrete. A satisfying cloud of dust and splinters swirled around her knees.

"Good," she grunted.

Holly eyed the camera. Doubtless they were watching her. No time to waste. She flexed her fingers, repeating the maneuver again and again, until the steel base left deep welts in her finger joints. With each impact more and more splinters popped from the fresh floor.

After several moments, the cell door burst open and Juliet fell into the room.

"What are you doing?" she panted. "Trying to knock the house down?"

"I’m hungry!" shouted Holly. "And I’m fed up of waving at that stupid camera. Don’t you feed your prisoners around here? I want some food!"

Juliet’s fingers curled into a fist. Artemis had warned her to be civil, but there was a limit.

"No need to get your pant . . . or whatever in a twist. So what do you fairies eat?"

"Got any dolphin?" Holly asked sarcastically.

Juliet shuddered. "No, I don’t, you beast!"

"Fruit then. Or vegetables. Make sure they’re washed. I don’t want any of your chemical poisons in my blood."

"Ha ha, what a riot you are. Don’t worry, all our produce is grown naturally." Juliet paused on her way to the door. "And don’t you go forgetting the rules. No trying to escape from the house. And there’s no need to break up the furniture either. Don’t make me demonstrate my full nelson."

As soon as Juliet’s footsteps had faded, Holly began smashing the bed into the concrete. That was the thing about fairy bonds. The instructions had to be given eye to eye, and they had to be very precise. Just saying there was no need to do a thing wasn’t specifically forbidding an elf to do it. And another thing, Holly had no intention of escaping from the house. That wasn’t to say that she didn’t mean to get out of her cell.

Artemis had added yet another monitor to the bank. This one was linked to a camera in Angeline Fowl’s attic room. He spared a moment to check on his mother. Sometimes it bothered him having a camera in her room; it seemed almost like spying. But it was for her own good. There was always the danger that she could hurt herself. At the moment she was sleeping peacefully, having swallowed the sleeping pill that Juliet had left on her tray. All part of the plan. A vital part.

Butler entered the control room. He was clutching a fistful of fairy hardware and rubbing his neck.

"Tricky little blighters."

Artemis looked up from the monitor bank.

"Any problems?"

"Nothing major. These little batons pack quite a punch, though. How’s our prisoner?"

"Fine. Juliet is getting her something to eat. I’m afraid Captain Short is going a bit stir-crazy."

On the screen, Holly was smashing her cot into the concrete.

"It’s understandable," noted the manservant. "Imagine her frustration. It’s not as if she can tunnel her way out."

Artemis smiled."No. The entire estate is built on a bed of limestone. Not even a dwarf could tunnel his way out of here. Or in."

Wrong, as it happened. Dead wrong. A landmark moment for Artemis Fowl.

The LEP had procedures for emergencies like this one. Admittedly these did not include the Retrieval Squad getting hammered by a lone enemy. Still, that just made the next step all the more urgent, especially with the faintest of orange tinges creeping into the sky.

"Are we good to go?" roared Root into his mike, as though it wasn’t whisper-sensitive.

Good to go, thought Foaly, busy wiring the last dish on a watchtower. These military types and their catchphrases. Good to go, Lock and load, I don’t know but I’ve been told. So insecure.

Aloud he said, "No need to shout, Commander. These headsets could pick up a spider scratching in Madagascar."

"And is there a spider scratching in Madagascar?"

"Well . . . I don’t know. They can’t really—"

"Well, stop changing the subject, Foaly, and answer the question!"

The centaur scowled. The commander took everything so literally. He plugged the dish’s modem lead into his laptop.

"Okay. We’re . . . good to go."

"About time, too. Right, flip the switch."

For the third time in as many moments, Foaly gritted his horsey teeth. He was indeed the stereotypical unappreciated genius. Flick the switch, if you don’t mind. Root didn’t have the cranial capacity to appreciate what he was trying to do here.

Stopping time wasn’t just a matter of pressing the on button, there was a series of delicate procedures that had to be performed with utmost precision. Otherwise the stop zone could end up as just so much ash and radioactive slop.

While it was true that fairies had been stopping time for millennia, these days, with satellite communication and the Internet, humans were liable to notice if a zone just dropped out of time for a couple of hours. There was an age when you could throw a blanket stoppage over a whole country and the Mud People would simply think the gods were angry. But not anymore. Nowadays the humans had instruments for measuring anything, so if there was any time-stopping to be done, it had better be fine-tuned and precise.

In the old days, five elfin warlocks would form a pentagram around the target and spread a magic shield over it, temporarily stopping time inside the enchanted enclosure.

This was fine as far as it went, provided the warlocks didn’t have to use the bathroom. Many a siege was lost because an elf had one glass of wine too many. Warlocks tire quickly too, and their arms get sore. On a good day, you had maybe an hour and a half, which was hardly worth the trouble in the first place.

It was Foaly’s idea to mechanize the whole procedure. He had the warlocks do their thing into lithium batteries, and then set up a network of receiver dishes around the designated area. Sounds simple? Well, it wasn’t. But there were definite advantages. For one thing, there were no more power surges. Batteries didn’t try to show off to each other. You could calculate exactly how many power cells were needed, and sieges could be extended for up to eight hours.

As it happened, the Fowl estate was the perfect location for a time-stop—isolated with a definite boundary. It even had elevated towers for the dishes, for heaven’s sake. It was almost as if Artemis Fowl wanted it to be time-stopped . . . Foaly’s finger hesitated over the button. Could it be possible? After all, the human youth had been one step ahead throughout this whole affair.

"Commander?"

"Are we on-line yet?"

"Not exactly. There’s something—"

Root’s reaction nearly blew out the woofers in Foaly’s earpiece.

"No, Foaly! There isn’t something! None of your bright ideas, thank you very much. Captain Short’s life is in danger, so push the button before I climb that tower and push it with your face!"

"Touchy," muttered Foaly, and pushed the button.

Lieutenant Cudgeon checked his moonometer.

"You have eight hours."

"I know how much time I have," growled Root. "And stop following me. Don’t you have work to do?"

"Actually, now that you mention it, I have a bio-bomb to arm."

Root rounded on him. "Don’t annoy me, Lieutenant.

Having you make comments at every turn is not improving my concentration. Just do whatever it is you feel you have to do. But be prepared to back it up at tribunal. If this one goes wrong, heads are going to roll."

"Indeed," muttered Cudgeon under his breath. "But mine is not going to be one of them."

Root checked the sky. A shimmering azure field had descended over the Fowl estate. Good. They were in limbo. Outside the walls, life continued at an exaggerated pace, but if anyone were to somehow gain access to the manor in spite of the fortified walls and high gate, they would find it deserted, all occupants trapped in the past.

So for the next eight hours, it would be twilight on the Fowl estate. After that, Root could not guarantee Holly’s safety. Given the gravity of the situation, it was more than likely that Cudgeon would get the go-ahead to bio-bomb the whole place. Root had seen a blue rinse before. No living thing escaped, not even the rats.

Root caught up with Foaly at the base of the north tower. The centaur had parked a shuttle by the three-foot-thick wall. Already the work area was a mess of tangled wires and pulsating fiber optics.

"Foaly? Are you in here?"

The centaur’s foil-capped head emerged from the belly of a disemboweled hard drive.

"Over here, Commander. You’ve come to push a button with my face, I presume."

Root almost laughed. "Don’t tell me you’re looking for an apology, Foaly. I’ve already used my quota for today. And that was to a lifelong friend."

"Cudgeon? Forgive me, Commander, but I wouldn’t waste my apologies on the lieutenant. He won’t be wasting any on you when he stabs you in the back."

"You’re wrong about him. Cudgeon is a good officer. A bit eager, certainly, but he’ll do the right thing when the time comes."

"The right thing for himself, maybe. I don’t think Holly is at the top of his priority list."

Root didn’t answer. He couldn’t.

"And another thing. I have a sneaking suspicion that young Artemis Fowl wanted us to stop time. After all, everything else we’ve tried has played straight into his hands."

Root rubbed his temples. "That’s impossible. How could a human know about time-stoppage? Anyway, this is no time for theorizing, Foaly. I have less than eight hours to clean up this mess. So what have you got for me?"

Foaly clopped over to an equipment rack clamped to the wall.

"No heavy armament, that’s for sure. Not after what happened to Retrieval One. No helmet either. That beast of a Mud Man seems to collect them. No, to show good faith, we’re going to send you in unarmed and unarmored."

Root snorted. "What manual did you get this from?"

"It’s standard operating procedure. Fostering trust speeds communication."

"Oh, stop quoting and give me something to shoot."

"Suit yourself," sighed Foaly, selecting what looked like a finger from the rack.

"What’s that?"

"It’s a finger. What does it look like?"

"A finger," admitted Root.

"Yes, but not any ordinary finger." He glanced around to make sure that no one else was watching. "The tip contains a pressurized dart. One shot only. You tap the knuckle with your thumb and someone goes beddie-bye."

"Why haven’t I seen this before?"

"It’s a covert kinda thing. . . ."

"And?" said Root suspiciously.

"Well, there have been accidents. . . ."

"Tell me, Foaly."

"Our agents keep forgetting they have it on."

"Meaning they shoot themselves."

Foaly nodded miserably. "One of our best sprites was picking his nose at the time. Three days on the critical list."

Root rolled the memory latex on to his index finger, where it immediately assumed the shape and flesh tone of the host digit.

"Don’t worry, Foaly, I’m not a complete idiot. Anything else?"

Foaly unhooked what appeared to be a false bottom from the equipment rack.

"You’re not serious! What does that do?"

"Nothing," admitted the centaur. "But it gets a great laugh at parties."

Root chuckled. Twice. That was a major lapse for him.

"Okay, levity over. Are you going to wire me?"

"Naturally. One iris-cam. What color?" He peered into the commander’s eyes. "Hmm. Mud brown." He selected a small vial from the shelf and removed the electronic contact lens from a fluid capsule. Plucking Root’s eyelid with thumb and forefinger, he slotted in the iris-cam. "That might irritate you. Try not to rub or it could end up in the back of your eye. Then we’d be looking into your head, and there’s nothing interesting in there, heaven knows."

Root blinked, resisting the urge to knead his watering eye.

"That’s it?"

Foaly nodded. "That’s all we dare risk."

The commander agreed reluctantly. His hip felt very light without a tri-barreled blaster dangling from it.

"Okay. I suppose this amazing dart finger will have to do. Honestly, Foaly, if this blows up in my face, you’ll be on the next shuttle back to Haven."

The centaur snickered. "Just be careful in the toilet."

Root didn’t laugh. There were some things you didn’t joke about.

Artemis’s watch had stopped. It was as though Greenwich wasn’t there anymore. Or perhaps, mused Artemis, we’re the ones who have disappeared. He checked CNN. It had frozen. A picture of Riz Khan jittered slightly on the screen. Artemis could not hold back a satisfied smile. They had done it, just like the Book said. The LEP had stopped time. All according to plan.

Time to check out a theory. Artemis wheeled over to the monitor bank and punched up the Mam Cam on the twenty-eight-inch main monitor. Angeline Fowl was no longer on the chaise lounge. Artemis panned around the room. It was empty. His mother had gone. Disappeared. His smile widened. Perfect. Just as he’d suspected.

Artemis switched his attention to Holly Short. She was banging the bed again. Occasionally she would rise from the mattress, pounding the wall with her bare fists. Maybe it was more than frustration. Could there be method in her madness? He tapped the monitor with a slim finger.

"What are you up to, Captain? What’s your little plan?"

He was distracted by a movement on the avenue monitor.

"At last," he breathed. "The games begin."

A figure was advancing down the avenue. Small, but imposing nonetheless. Unshielded too. Finished playacting then.

Artemis punched the intercom button.

"Butler? We have a guest. I’ll show him in. You get back here and police the surveillance cameras."

Butler’s voice came back tinny through the speaker.

"Ten four, Artemis. On my way."

Artemis buttoned his designer jacket, pausing at the mirror to straighten his tie. The trick to negotiation was to hold all the cards going in, and even if you didn’t, to try to look as though you did.

Artemis put on his best sinister face. Evil, he told himself, evil but highly intelligent. And determined, don’t forget determined. He put a hand on the doorknob. Steady now. Deep breaths, and try not to think about the possibility that you have misjudged this situation and are about to be shot dead. One, two, three . . . He opened the door.

"Good evening," he said, every inch the gracious host, albeit a sinister, evil, intelligent, and determined one.

Root stood on the doorstep, palms up, the universal gesture for Look, I’m not carrying a big murderous weapon.

"You’re Fowl?"

"Artemis Fowl, at your service. And you are?"

"LEP Commander Root. Right, we know each other’s names, so could we get on with this?"

"Certainly."

Root decided to chance taking out his weapon. "Step outside then. Where I can see you."

Artemis’s face hardened. "Have you learned nothing from my demonstrations? The ship? Your commandos? Do I need to kill someone?"

"No," said Root hurriedly. "I only—"

"You only meant to lure me outside, where I could be snatched and used to trade. Please, Commander Root, raise your game or send someone intelligent."

Root felt the blood pump through his cheeks.

"Now you just listen to me, you young . . ."

Artemis smiled, in command again. "Not very good negotiation techniques, Commander, to lose your cool before we even get to the table."

Root took several deep breaths.

"Fine. Whatever you say. Where would you prefer to conduct our talks?"

"Inside, of course. You have my permission to enter, but remember, Captain Short’s life is in your hands. Be careful with it."

Root followed his host down the vaulted hallway. Generations of Fowls glared down at him from classical portraits. They passed through a stained-oak doorway to a long conference room. There were two places set at a round table, complete with pads, ashtrays, and water jugs.

Root was delighted to see the ashtrays, and immediately pulled a half-chewed cigar from his vest.

"Maybe you’re not such a barbarian after all," he grunted, exhaling a huge cloud of green smoke. The commander ignored the water jugs, instead pouring himself a shot of something purple from a hip flask. He drank deeply, belched, and sat.

"Ready?" Artemis shuffled his notes, like a news anchor. "Here is the situation as I see it. I have the means to expose your subterranean existence, and you are powerless to stop me. So, basically, whatever I ask for is a small price to pay."

Root spat out a shred of fungus tobacco. "So, you think you can just put all this information out over the Internet."

"Well, not immediately, not with the time-stop in effect."

Root choked on a lungful of smoke. Their ace in the hole. Gone.

"Well, if you know about the time-stop, you must also know that you are completely cut off from the outside world. You are, in effect, powerless."

Artemis jotted a note on the pad. "Let’s save some time here. I grow weary of your clumsy bluffs. In the case of an abduction, the LEP will first send a crack Retrieval team to get back what has been lost. You have done so. Excuse me while I titter. Crack team? Honestly. A Cub Scout patrol armed with water pistols could have defeated them."

Root fumed silently, taking out his anger on the cigar butt.

"The next official step is negotiation. And finally, when the eight-hour time limit is about to run out, and if no solution can be reached, a bio-bomb is detonated, contained by the time-field."

"You appear to know an awful lot about us, Master Fowl. I don’t suppose you’ll tell me how?"

"Correct."

Root mashed the remains of his cigar into the crystal ashtray.

"So, let’s have it, what are your demands?"

"One demand. Singular."

Artemis slid his notepad across the polished table. Root read what was written there.

"‘One ton of twenty-four-carat gold. Small unmarked ingots only.’ You can’t be serious."

"Oh, but I am."

Root sat forward in his chair. "Don’t you see? Your position is untenable. Either you give us back Captain Short or we will be forced to kill you all. There is no middle ground. We don’t negotiate. Not really. I’m just here to explain the facts to you."

Artemis smiled his vampire smile. "Oh, but you will negotiate with me, Commander."

"Oh, really? And what makes you so special?"

"I am special, because I know how to escape the time-field."

"Impossible," snorted Root. "Can’t be done."

"Oh, yes it can. Trust me, I haven’t been wrong yet."

Root tore off the top page, folding it into his pocket.

"I’ll have to think about this."

"Take your time. We have eight hours . . . excuse me, seven and a half hours, then time’s up for everybody."

Root said nothing for a long while, tapping his nails on the tabletop. He took a breath to speak, then changed his mind and stood abruptly.

"We’ll be in touch. Don’t worry, I’ll see myself out."

Artemis pushed his chair back.

"You do that. But remember this, none of your race has permission to enter here while I’m alive."

Root stalked down the hallway, glaring back at the oil paintings. Better to leave now and process this new information. The Fowl boy was indeed a slippery opponent. But he was making one basic mistake—the assumption that Root would play by the rules. However, Julius Root hadn’t gotten his commander’s stripes by following any rule book. Time for a bit of unorthodox action.

The videotape from Root’s iris-cam was being reviewed by experts.

"You see there," said Professor Cumulus, a behavioral specialist—"that twitch. He’s lying."

"Nonsense," huffed Dr. Argon, a psychologist from below the United States. "He’s itchy, that’s all. He’s itchy so he scratches. Nothing sinister in it."

Cumulus turned to Foaly.

"Listen to him. How can I be expected to work with this charlatan?"

"Witch doctor," countered Argon.

Foaly raised his hairy palms.

"Gentlemen, please. We need agreement here. A concrete profile."

"It’s no use," said Argon. "I can’t work in these conditions."

Cumulus folded his arms. "If he can’t work, neither can I."

Root strode through the shuttle double doors. His trademark purple complexion was even rosier than usual.

"That human is toying with us. I will not have it. Now, what did our experts make of the tape?"

Foaly moved slightly to the side, allowing the commander a clear run at the so-called experts.

"Apparently they can’t work in these conditions."

Root’s eyes narrowed to slits, bringing his prey into sharp focus. "Excuse me?"

"The good doctor is a half-wit," said Cumulus, unfamiliar with the commander’s temper.

"I—I’m a half-wit?" stuttered Argon, equally ignorant. "What about you, you cave fairy? Plastering your absurd interpretations onto the most innocent of gestures."

"Innocent? The boy is a bag of nerves. Obviously lying. It’s textbook."

Root slammed a clenched fist on to the table, sending a spiderweb of cracks scurrying across the surface.

"Silence!"

And silence there was. Instantly.

"Now, you two experts are on handsome retainers for your profiling work. Correct?"

The pair nodded, afraid to speak in case that broke the silence rule.

"This is probably the case of your lives, so I want you to concentrate very hard. Understood?"

More nods.

Root popped the camera out of his weeping eye.

"Fast-forward it, Foaly. Toward the end."

The tape hopped forward erratically. On screen, Root followed the human into his conference room.

"There. Stop it there. Can you zoom in on his face?"

"Can I zoom in on his face?" snorted Foaly. "Can a dwarf steal the web from under a spider?"

"Yes," replied Root.

"That was a rhetorical question, actually."

"I don’t need a grammar lesson, Foaly, just zoom in, would you?"

Foaly ground his tombstone teeth.

"Okay, boss. Will do."

The centaur’s fingers prodded the keyboard with lightning speed. Artemis’s visage grew to fill the plasma screen.

"I’d advise you to listen," said Root, squeezing the experts’ shoulders. "This is a pivotal moment in your careers."

"I am special," said the mouth on the screen, "because I can escape the time-field." "Now tell me," said Root. "Is he lying?" "Run it again," said Cumulus. "Show me the eyes." Argon nodded. "Yes. Just the eyes." Foaly tapped a few more keys, and Artemis’s deep blue eyes expanded to the width of the screen. "I am special," boomed the human voice, "because I can escape the time field." "Well, is he lying?" Cumulus and Argon looked at each other, all traces of antagonism gone. "No," they said simultaneously. "He’s telling the truth," added the behaviorist. "Or," clarified the psychologist, "at least he thinks he is." Root swabbed his eye with a cleansing solution. "That’s what I thought. When I looked that human in the face, I figured he was either a genius or crazy." Artemis’s cool eyes glared at them from the screen. "So which is it?" asked Foaly. "A genius or crazy?" Root grabbed his tri-barreled blaster from the gun rack.

"What’s the difference?" he snapped, strapping his trusty weapon to his hip. "Get me an outside line to E1. This Fowl person seems to know all of our rules, so it’s time to break a few."





CHAPTER 7

MULCH




Time to introduce a new character to our other-worldly pageant. Well, not strictly speaking a new character. We have encountered him before, in the LEP booking line. On remand for numerous larcenies: Mulch Diggums, the kleptomaniac dwarf. A dubious individual, even by Artemis Fowl’s standards. As if this account didn’t already suffer from an overdose of amoral individuals.

Born to a typical dwarf cavern-dwelling family, Mulch had decided early that mining was not for him, and resolved to put his talents to another use, namely digging and entering, generally entering Mud People’s property. Of course this meant forfeiting his magic. Dwellings were sacred. If you broke that rule, you had to be prepared to accept the consequences. Mulch didn’t mind. He didn’t care much for magic anyway. There had never been much use for it down in the mines.

Things had gone pretty well for a few centuries, and he’d built up quite a lucrative aboveground memorabilia business. That was until he’d tried to sell the Jules Rimet Cup to an undercover LEP operative. From then on his luck had turned, and he’d been arrested over twenty times to date. A total of three hundred years in and out of prison.

Mulch had a prodigious appetite for tunneling, and that, unfortunately, is a literal translation. For those unfamiliar with the mechanics of dwarf tunneling, I shall endeavor to explain them as tastefully as possible. Like some members of the reptile family, dwarf males can unhinge their jaws, allowing them to ingest several pounds of earth a second. This material is processed by a superefficient metabolism, stripped of any useful minerals and . . . ejected at the other end, as it were. Charming.

At present, Mulch was languishing in a stone-walled cell in LEP Central. At least, he was trying to project an image of a languishing, unperturbed kind of dwarf. Actually, he was quaking in his steel-toe-capped boots.

The goblin/dwarf turf war was flaring up at the moment and some bright spark LEP elf had seen fit to put him in a cell with a gang of psyched-up goblins. An oversight perhaps. More likely a spot of revenge for trying to pick his arresting officer’s pocket in the booking line.

"So, dwarf," sneered the head-honcho goblin, a wart-faced fellow covered in tattoos. "How come you don’t chew your way outta here?"

Mulch rapped on the walls. "Solid rock."

The goblin laughed. "So what? Can’t be any harder than your dwarf skull."

His cronies laughed. So did Mulch. He thought it might be wise. Wrong.

"You laughin’ at me, dwarf?"

Mulch stopped laughing.

"With you," he corrected. "I’m laughing with you. That skull joke was pretty funny."

The goblin advanced, until his slimy nose was a centimeter from Mulch’s own. "You pay-tron-izin’ me, dwarf?"

Mulch swallowed, calculating. If he unhinged now, he could probably swallow the leader before the others reacted. Still, goblins were murder on the digestion. Very bony.

The goblin conjured up a fireball around his fist. "I asked you a question, stumpy."

Mulch could feel every sweat gland on his body pop into instant overdrive. Dwarfs did not like fire. They didn’t even like thinking about flames. Unlike the rest of the fairy races, dwarfs had no desire to live above ground. Too close to the sun. Ironic for someone in the Mud People Possession Liberation business.

"N—no need for that," he stammered. "I was just trying to be friendly."

"Friendly," scoffed Wart-face. "Your kind don’t know the meanin’ of the word. Cowardly backstabbers, the lot of you."

Mulch nodded diplomatically. "We have been known to be a bit treacherous."

"A bit treacherous! A bit treacherous! My brother Phlegm was ambushed by a crowd of dwarfs disguised as dung heaps! He’s still in traction!"

Mulch nodded sympathetically. "The old dung heap ruse. Disgraceful. One of the reasons I don’t associate with the Brotherhood."

Wart-face twirled the fireball between his fingers. "There are two things under this world that I really despise."

Mulch had a feeling that he was about to find out what they were.

"One is a stinkin’ dwarf."

No surprises there.

"And the other is a traitor to his own kind. And from what I hear, you fall neatly into both categories."

Mulch smiled weakly. "Just my luck."

"Luck ain’t got nothin’ to do with it. Fortune delivered you into my hands."

On another day, Mulch might have pointed out that luck and fortune were basically the same thing. Not today.

"You like fire, dwarf?"

Mulch shook his head.

Wart-face grinned.

"Now ain’t that a shame, ’cause any second now I’m going to ram this here fireball down your throat."

The dwarf swallowed drily. Wasn’t it just typical of the Dwarf Brotherhood? What do dwarfs hate? Fire. Who are the only creatures with the ability to conjure fireballs? Goblins. So who did the dwarfs pick a fight with? A real no-brainer.

Mulch backed up to the wall.

"Careful, there. We could all go up."

"Not us." Wart-face grinned, snorting the fireball up two elongated nostrils. "Completely fireproof."

Mulch was perfectly aware of what would happen next. He’d seen it too many times in the back alleys. A group of goblins would corner a stray brother dwarf, pin him down, and then the leader would give him the double barrels straight in the face.

Wart-face’s nostrils quivered as he prepared to vent the inhaled fireball. Mulch quailed. There was only one chance. The goblins had made a basic mistake. They’d forgotten to pin his arms.

The goblin drew a breath through his mouth, then closed it. More exhalation pressure for the fire stream. He tilted his head back, pointing his nose at the dwarf, and let fly. Quick as a flash, Mulch jammed his thumbs up Wartface’s nostrils. Disgusting, yes, but definitely better than becoming dwarf kebab.

The fireball had nowhere to go. It rebounded on the balls of Mulch’s thumbs and ricocheted back into the goblin’s head. The tear ducts provided the path of least resistance, so the flames compressed into pressurized streams, erupting just below the goblin’s eyes. A sea of flame spread across the cell roof.

Mulch withdrew his thumbs and, after a quick wipe, thrust them in his mouth, allowing the natural balm in his saliva to begin the healing process. Of course if he’d still had his magic, he could have just wished the scorched digits better. But that was the price you paid for a life of crime.

Wart-face didn’t look so good. Smoke was leaking from every orifice in his head. Flameproof goblins may be, but the errant fireball had given his tubes a good scouring. He swayed like a strand of seaweed, then collapsed facedown on the concrete floor. Something crunched. Probably a big goblin nose.

The other gang members did not react favorably.

"Look what he did to the boss!"

"That stinkin’ stump."

"Let’s fry ’im."

Mulch backed up even further. He’d been hoping the remaining goblins would lose their nerve once their leader was out of commission. Apparently not. Even though it was most definitely not in his nature, Mulch had no option but to attack.

He unhinged his jaw and leaped forward, clamping his teeth around the foremost goblin’s head.

"Ow, bagg off!" he shouted around the obstruction in his mouth. "Bagg off or ur briend gedds it!"

The others froze, uncertain of their next move. Of course they’d all seen what dwarf molars could do to a goblin head. Not a pretty sight.

Each one popped a fireball in his fist.

"I’m warnih ooh!"

"You can’t get us all, stumpy."

Mulch resisted the impulse to bite down. It is the strongest of dwarf urges, a genetic memory born from millennia spent tunneling. The fact that the goblin was wriggling slimily didn’t help. His options were running out. The gang was advancing and he was powerless as long as his mouth was full. It was crunch time. Pardon the pun.

Suddenly the cell door clanked open and what seemed like an entire squadron of LEP officers flooded the confined space. Mulch felt the cold steel of a gun barrel against his temple.

"Spit out the prisoner," ordered a voice.

Mulch was delighted to comply. A thoroughly slimed goblin collapsed retching on the floor.

"You goblins, put ’em out."

One by one the fireballs were extinguished.

"That’s not my fault," whined Mulch, pointing to the spasming Wart-face. "He blew himself up."

The officer holstered his weapon, drawing out a set of cuffs.

"I couldn’t care less what you do to each other," he said, spinning Mulch and snapping the cuffs on. "If it was up to me, I’d put the whole lot of you in a big room, and come back a week later to sluice it out. But Commander Root wants to see you above ground ASAP."

"ASAP?"

"Now, if not sooner."

Mulch knew Root. The commander was responsible for several of his government hotel visits. If Julius wanted to see him, it probably wasn’t for drinks and a movie.

"Now? But it’s daylight now. I’ll burn."

The LEP officer laughed.

"It ain’t daylight where you’re going, pal. Where you’re going it ain’t anything."

Root was waiting for the dwarf inside the time-field portal. The portal was yet another of Foaly’s inventions. Fairies could be introduced to and leave the time-field without affecting the altered flow inside the field. This effectively meant that even though it took nearly six hours to get Mulch to the surface, he was injected into the field only moments after Root had the notion to send for him.

It was Mulch’s first time in a field. He stood watching life proceed at an exaggerated rate outside the shimmering corona. Cars zipped by at impossible speeds, and clouds tumbled across the skyline as though driven by force-ten gales.

"Mulch, you little reprobate," roared Root. "You can take off that suit now. The field is UV-filtered, or so I’m told."

The dwarf had been issued a blackout suit at E1. Even though dwarfs had thick skins, they were extremely sensitive to sunlight and had a burn time of less than three minutes. Mulch peeled off the skintight suit.

"Nice to see you, Julius."

"That’s Commander Root to you."

"Commander, now. I heard that. Clerical error, was it?"

Root’s teeth ground his cigar to a pulp.

"I don’t have time for this impudence, convict. And the only reason that my boot is not up your behind right now is that I have a job for you."

Mulch frowned. "Convict? I have a name, you know, Julius."

Root squatted to the dwarf’s level."I don’t know what dreamworld you live in, convict, but in the real world you are a criminal and it is my job to ensure your life is as unpleasant as possible. So if you’re expecting civility just because I’ve testified against you some fifteen times, forget it!"

Mulch rubbed his wrists where the handcuffs had left red welts.

"Fine, Commander. No need to blow a gasket. I’m not a murderer, you know, just a petty criminal."

"From what I hear, you nearly made the transformation below in the cells."

"Not my fault. They attacked me."

Root screwed a fresh cigar into his mouth.

"Fine, whatever. Just follow me, and don’t steal anything."

"Yessir, Commander," said Mulch innocently. He didn’t need to steal anything else. He’d already palmed Root’s field-access card when the commander had made the mistake of leaning over.

They crossed the Retrieval perimeter to the avenue.

"Do you see that manor?"

"What manor?"

Root rounded on him. "I don’t have time for this, convict. Nearly half my time-stop has elapsed. Another few hours and one of my best officers will be blue-rinsed!"

Mulch shrugged. "None of my concern. I’m just a criminal, remember. And by the way, I know what you want me to do, and the answer is no."

"I haven’t even asked you yet."

"It’s obvious. I’m a house-breaker. That’s a house. You can’t go in because you’ll lose your magic, but my magic is already gone. Two and two."

Root spat out the cigar. "Don’t you have any civic pride? Our entire way of life is on the line here."

"Not my way of life. Fairy prison, human prison. It’s all the same to me."

The commander thought about it.

"Okay, you slime. Fifty years off your sentence."

"I want amnesty." "In your dreams, Mulch." "Take it or leave it." "Seventy-five years in minimum security. You take it or leave it." Mulch pretended to think. It was all academic, seeing

as he intended to escape anyway. "Single cell?" "Yes, yes. Single cell. Now, will you do it?" "Very well, Julius. Only because it’s you."

Foaly was searching for a matching iris-cam. "Hazel, I think. Or perhaps tawny. You really do have stunning eyes, Mister Mulch." "Thank you, Foaly. My mother always said they were my most attractive feature." Root was pacing the shuttle floor. "You two do realize we’re on a deadline here, don’t you?

Never mind matching the color. Just give him a camera." Foaly plucked a lens from its solution with tweezers. "This is not just vanity, Commander. The closer the match, the less interference from the actual eye." "Whatever, whatever, just get on with it." Foaly grabbed Mulch’s chin, holding him still. "There you are. We’re with you all the way." Foaly twisted a tiny cylinder into the thick tufts of hair growing from Mulch’s ear.

"Wired for sound now, too. In case you need to call for assistance."

The dwarf smiled wryly. "Forgive me for not swelling with confidence. I find I’ve always done better on my own."

"If you can call seventeen convictions doing better," chuckled Root.

"Oh, we have time for jokes now, do we?"

Root grabbed him by the shoulder. "You’re right. We don’t. Let’s go."

He dragged Mulch across a grassy verge to a cluster of cherry trees.

"I want you to tunnel in there and find out how this Fowl person knows so much about us. Probably some surveillance device. Whatever it is, destroy it. Find Captain Short if possible and see what you can do for her. If she is dead, at least it will clear the way for a bio-bomb."

Mulch squinted across the landscape. "I don’t like it."

"What don’t you like?"

"The lie of the land. I smell limestone. Solid-rock foundation. There might not be a way in."

Foaly trotted across. "I’ve done a scan. The original structure is based totally on rock, but some of the later extensions stray on to clay. The wine cellar in the south wing appears to have a wooden floor. It should be no problem for someone with a mouth like yours."

Mulch decided to take that as a statement of fact rather than an insult. He opened the back flap on his tunneling pants. "Right. Stand back."

Root and the surrounding LEP officers rushed for cover, but Foaly, who had never actually seen a dwarf tunneling, decided to stay for a peek.

"Good luck, Mulch."

The dwarf unhinged his jaw.

"Ank oo," he mumbled, bending over for launch.

The centaur looked around.

"Where’s everyone—"

He never finished that statement, because a blob of recently swallowed and even more recently recycled limestone whacked him in the face. By the time he’d cleared his eyes, Mulch had disappeared down a vibrating hole, and there was the sound of hearty laughter shaking the cherry trees.

Mulch followed a loamy vein through a volcanic fold in the rock. Nice consistency, not too many loose stones. Plenty of insect life too. Vital for strong healthy teeth, a dwarf’s most important attribute—the first thing a prospective mate looked at. Mulch went low to the limestone, his belly almost scraping the rock. The deeper the tunnel, the less chance of subsidence on the surface. You couldn’t be too careful these days, not with motion sensors and land mines. Mud People went to extraordinary lengths to protect their valuables. With good reason, as it happened.

Mulch felt a vibration cluster to his left. Rabbits. The dwarf fixed the location in his internal compass. Always useful to know where the local wildlife hung out. He skirted the warren, following the manor foundations around in a long northwesterly loop.

Wine cellars were easy to locate. Over the centuries, residue seeped through the floor, infusing the land beneath with the wine’s personality. This one was somber, nothing daring here. A touch of fruit, but not enough to lighten the flavor. Definitely an occasion wine on the bottom rack. Mulch burped. That was good clay.

The dwarf aimed his scything jaws skyward, punching through the floorboards. He hauled himself through the jagged hole, shaking the last of the recycled mud from his pants.

He was in a blessedly dark room, perfect for dwarf vision. His sonar had guided him to an uncovered spot in the floor. Three feet to the left and he would have emerged in a huge barrel of Italian red.

Mulch rehinged his jaw and padded across to the wall. He flattened a conchlike ear to the red brickwork. For a moment he was absolutely still, absorbing the house’s vibrations. A lot of low-frequency humming. There was a generator somewhere, and plenty of juice running through the wires.

Footsteps, too. Way up. Maybe on the third floor. And close by. A crashing sound. Metal on concrete. There it was again. Someone was building something. Or breaking something down.

Something skittered past his foot. Mulch squashed it instinctively. It was a spider. Just a spider.

"Sorry, little friend," he said to the gray smear. "I’m a bit on the jittery side."

The steps were wooden, of course. More than a century old too by the smell of them. Steps like that creaked as soon as you looked at them. Better than any pressure pads for giving away intruders. Mulch climbed along the edges, one foot in front of the other. Right in by the wall was where the wood had most support and was less likely to creak.

This was not as simple as it sounds. Dwarf feet are designed for spadework, not for the delicate intricacies of ballet dancing or balancing on wooden steps. Nonetheless, Mulch reached the door without incident. A couple of minor squeaks, but nothing that would be detectable by human ears or hardware.

The door was locked, naturally, but it may as well not have been for all the challenge it presented to a kleptomaniac dwarf.

Mulch reached into his beard, plucking out a sturdy hair. Dwarf hair is radically different from the human variety. Mulch’s beard and head hair were actually a matrix of antennae that helped him to navigate and avoid danger below ground. Once removed from its pore, the hair immediately stiffened in rapid rigor mortis. Mulch twisted the end in the seconds before it became completely rigid. A perfect pick.

One quick jiggle and the lock yielded. Only two tumblers. Terrible security. Typical of humans, they never expected an attack from below. Mulch stepped on to a parquet corridor. The whole place smelled of money. He could make a fortune here, if only he had the time.

There were cameras just below the architrave. Tastefully done, nestling in the natural shadows. But vigilant nonetheless. Mulch stood for a moment, calculating the system’s blind spot. Three cameras on the corridor. Ninety-second sweep. No way through.

"You could ask for help," said a voice in his ear.

"Foaly?" Mulch pointed his wired eyeball at the nearest camera. "Can you do anything about those?" he whispered.

The dwarf heard the sound of a keyboard being manipulated, and suddenly his right eye zoomed like a camera lens.

"Handy," breathed Mulch. "I’ve got to get me one of these."

Root’s voice crackled through the tiny speaker. "No chance, convict. Government issue. Anyway, what would you do with one in prison? Get a close-up of the other side of your cell?"

"You’re such a charmer, Julius. What’s the matter? Are you jealous because I’m succeeding where you failed?"

Root’s foul swearing was drowned out by Foaly.

"Okay, I’ve got it. Simple video network. Not even digital. I’m going to broadcast a loop of the last ten seconds to every camera through our dishes. That should give you a few minutes."

Mulch shuffled uncomfortably. "How long will that take? I’m a bit exposed here, you know."

"It’s already started," replied Foaly. "So get moving."

"Are you sure?"

"Of course I’m sure. Elementary electronics. I’ve been messing with human surveillance since kindergarten. You’ll just have to trust me."

I’d rather trust a bunch of humans not to hunt a species to extinction than trust an LEP consultant, thought Mulch. But aloud he said, "Okay. I’m away. Over and out."

He sneaked down the hall. Even his hands were sneaky, padding the air as if he could somehow make himself lighter. Whatever that centaur did must have worked, because there were no agitated Mud People racing down the stairs, waving primitive gunpowder weapons.

Stairs. Ah, stairs. Mulch had a thing for stairs. They were like predug shafts. He found that inevitably the best booty lay at their summit. And what a stairway. Stained oak, with the intricate carvings generally associated with either the eighteenth century or the obscenely rich.

Mulch rubbed his finger along an ornate banister. In this case, probably both.

Still, no time to moon about. Stairways did not tend to remain deserted for long, especially during a siege. Who could tell how many bloodthirsty troopers waited behind each door, eager for a fairy head to add to their stuffed trophy wall.

Mulch climbed carefully, taking nothing for granted. Even solid oak creaked. He stuck to the borders, avoiding the carpet inlay. The dwarf knew from conviction number eight how easy it was to conceal a pressure pad beneath the deep shag of some antique weave.

He reached the landing with his head still attached to his shoulders. But there was another problem quite literally brewing. Dwarf digestion, due to its accelerated rate, can be quite explosive. The loosely packed soil on the Fowl estate was very well aerated, and a lot of that air had entered Mulch’s tubes along with the soil and minerals. Now the air wanted to get out.

Dwarf etiquette dictated that gas be passed while still in the tunnel, but Mulch didn’t have time for manners. Now he regretted not taking a moment to get rid of the gas while he was in the cellar. The problem with dwarf gas was that it couldn’t go up, only down. Imagine, if you will, the catastrophic effects of burping while digesting a mouthful of clay. Total system backup. Not a pretty sight. Thus dwarf anatomy ensured that all gas was passed below, actually aiding in the expulsion of unwanted clay.

Mulch wrapped his arms around his stomach. He’d better get out of the open. A blowout on a landing like this could take out the windows. He shuffled along the corridor, skipping through the first doorway he encountered.

More cameras. Quite a lot of them, in fact. Mulch studied the lenses’ sweep. Four were surveying the general floorspace, but another three were fixed.

"Foaly? You there?" whispered the dwarf.

"No." The typical sarcastic reply. "I have much better things to do than worry about the collapse of civilization as we know it."

"Yes, thank you. Don’t let my life being in danger interrupt your merriment."

"I’ll try not to."

"I have a challenge for you."

Foaly was instantly interested. "Really? Go on."

Mulch pointed his gaze at the recessed cameras, half hidden in the swirling architrave. "I need to know where those three cameras are pointing. Exactly."

Foaly laughed."That’s not a challenge. Those old video systems emit faint ion beams. Invisible to the naked eye, of course, but not with your iris-cam . . ."

The hardware in Mulch’s eye flickered and sparked.

"Oww!"

"Sorry. Small charge."

"You could have warned me."

"I’ll give you a big kiss later, you baby. I thought dwarfs were tough."

"We are tough. I’ll show you just how tough when I get back."

Root’s voice interrupted the posturing. "You won’t be showing anyone anything, convict, except perhaps where the toilet is in your cell. Now, what do you see?"

Mulch looked at the room again through his ion-sensitive eye. Each camera was emitting a faint beam, like the last evening sun rays. The rays pooled on a portrait of Artemis Fowl, Senior.

"Not behind the picture. Oh, please."

Mulch placed his ear against the picture glass. Nothing electrical. Not alarmed, then. Just to be sure, he sniffed the frame’s edge. No plastic or copper. Wood, steel, and glass. Some lead in the paint. He curled a nail behind the frame and pulled. The picture came away smoothly, hinged on the side. And behind it—a safe.

"It’s a safe," said Foaly.

"I know that, you idiot. I’m trying to concentrate here! If you want to help, tell me the combination."

"No problem. Oh, by the way, there’s another little shock coming. Maybe the big baby would like to suck his thumb for comfort."

"Foaly. I’m going to . . . Owww!"

"There. That’s the X ray on."

Mulch squinted at the safe. It was incredible. He could see right into the works. Tumblers and catches stood out in shadowy relief. He blew on his hairy fingers and twisted the combination dial. In seconds the safe lay open before him.

"Oh," he said, disappointed.

"What is it?"

"Nothing. Just human currency. Nothing of value."

"Leave it," ordered Root. "Try another room. Get going."

Mulch nodded. Another room. Before his time ran out. But something was niggling at him. If this guy was so clever, why did he put the safe behind a painting? Such a cliché. Totally against form. No. Something wasn’t right here. They were being duped somehow.

Mulch closed the safe, swinging the portrait back into position. It swung smoothly, weightless on the hinges. Weightless. He swung the picture out again. And back in.

"Convict. What are you doing?"

"Shut up, Julius! I mean, quiet a moment, Commander."

Mulch squinted at the frame’s profile. A bit thicker than normal. Quite a bit thicker. Even taking the box frame into account. Two inches. He ran a nail down the heavy cartridge backing and stripped it away to reveal . . .

"Another safe."

A smaller one. Custom-made, obviously.

"Foaly. I can’t see through this."

"Lead-lined. You’re on your own, burglar boy. Do what you do best."

"Typical," muttered Mulch, flattening his ear to the cold steel.

He twirled the dial experimentally. Nice action. The clicks were muted by the lead; he would have to concentrate. The upside was that something this thin could have only three tumblers at the most.

Mulch held his breath and twisted the dial, one cog at a time. To the normal ear, even with amplification, the clicks would have seemed uniform. But to Mulch, each cog had a distinctive signature and when a ratchet caught, it was so loud as to be deafening.

"One," he breathed.

"Hurry it up, convict. Your time is running out."

"You interrupted to tell me that? I can see now how you made commander, Julius."

"Convict, I’m going to . . ."

But it was no use. Mulch had removed his earpiece, slipping it into his pocket. Now he could devote his full attention to the task at hand.

"Two."

There was noise outside. In the hall. Someone was coming. About the size of an elephant by the sound of it. No doubt this was the man mountain that had made mincemeat of the Retrieval Squad.

Mulch blinked a bead of sweat from his eye.

Concentrate. Concentrate. The cogs clicked by. Millimeter by millimeter. Nothing was catching. The floor seemed to be hopping gently, though he could be imagining it.

Click, click. Come on. Come on. His fingers were slick with perspiration, the dial slipping between them. Mulch wiped them on his jerkin.

"Now, baby, come on. Talk to me."

Click. Thunk.

"Yes!"

Mulch twisted the handle. Nothing. Still an obstruction. He ran a fingertip over the metal face. There. A small irregularity. A micro keyhole. Too small for your average lock pick. Time for a little trick he’d learned in prison. Quickly though, his stomach was bubbling like stew in the oven, and the footsteps were getting closer.

Selecting a sturdy chin hair, Mulch fed it gently into the tiny hole. When the tip reappeared, he pulled the root from his chin. The hair immediately stiffened, retaining the shape of the lock’s interior.

Mulch held his breath and twisted. Smooth as a goblin’s lie, the lock opened. Beautiful. At moments like these, it was almost worth all the jail time.

The kleptomaniac dwarf swung back the little door. Beautiful work. Almost worthy of a fairy forge. Light as a wafer. Inside was a small chamber. And in the chamber was ...

"Oh, gods above," breathed Mulch.

Then things came to a head rather rapidly. The shock that Mulch had experienced communicated itself to his bowels, and they decided the excess air had to go. Mulch knew the symptoms. Jelly legs, bubbling cramps, wobbly behind. In the seconds remaining to him, he snatched the object from the safe and, leaning over, he clasped his knees for support.

The constrained wind had built itself up to mini-cyclone intensity and could not be constrained. And so it exited. Rather abrasively. Blowing open Mulch’s back flap, and slamming into the rather large gentleman who had been sneaking up behind him.

Artemis was glued to the monitors. This was the time when things traditionally went wrong for kidnappers— the third quarter of operations. Having been successful thus far, the abductors tended to relax, light up a few cigarettes, get chatty with their hostages. Next thing they knew, they were flat on their faces with a dozen guns pointed at the backs of their heads. Not Artemis Fowl. He didn’t make mistakes.

No doubt the fairies were reviewing the tapes of their first negotiating session, searching for anything that would give them a way in. Well, it was there all right. All they had to do was look. Buried just deep enough to make it look accidental.

It was possible that Commander Root would try another ruse. He was a wily one, no doubt about it. One who would not take kindly to being bested by a child. He would bear watching.

The mere thought of Root gave Artemis the shivers. He decided to check in again. He inspected the monitors. Juliet was still in the kitchen, scrubbing at the sink. Washing the vegetables.

Captain Short was on her bunk. Quiet as the grave. No more bed banging. Perhaps he had been wrong about her. Perhaps there was no plan.

Butler stood at his post outside Holly’s cell. Odd. He should have been on his rounds by now. Artemis grabbed a walkie-talkie.

"Butler?"

"Roger, base. Receiving."

"Shouldn’t you be on your rounds?"

There was a pause. "I am, Artemis. Patrolling the main landing. Coming up on the safe room. I’m waving at you right now."

Artemis glanced at the landing cameras. Deserted. From every angle. Definitely no waving manservant. He studied the monitors, counting under his breath . . . There! Every ten seconds, a slight jump. On every screen.

"A loop!" he cried, jumping from his chair. "They’re feeding us a loop!"

Over the speaker, he could hear Butler’s pace quickening to a run.

"The safe room!"

Artemis’s stomach dropped into queasy hell. Duped! He, Artemis Fowl, had been duped, even though he’d known it was coming. Inconceivable. It was arrogance that had done it. His own blinding arrogance, and now the entire plan could collapse around his ears.

He switched the walkie-talkie to Juliet’s band. It was a pity now that he’d taken the house’s intercom off-line, but it didn’t operate on a secure frequency.

"Juliet?"

"Receiving."

"Where are you right now?"

"In the kitchen. Wrecking my nails on this grater."

"Leave it, Juliet. Check on the prisoner."

"But, Artemis, the carrot sticks will dry out!"

"Leave it, Juliet!" shouted Artemis. "Drop everything and check on the prisoner!"

Juliet obediently dropped everything, including the walkie-talkie. She’d sulk for days now. Never mind. There was no time to worry about a teenage girl’s bruised ego. He had more important matters to tend to.

Artemis depressed the master switch on the computerized surveillance system. His only chance of purging the loop was a complete reboot. After several agonizing moments of screen snow, the monitors jumped and settled. Things were not as they had seemed only seconds before.

There was a grotesque thing in the safe room. It had apparently discovered the secret compartment. Not only that but it had managed to open the whisper lock. Amazing. Butler had it covered though. He was sneaking up behind the creature, and any moment now the intruder would find itself nose down in the carpet.

Artemis switched his attention to Holly. The elf was back to bed banging. Slamming the frame down over and over again, as though she could . . .

It hit Artemis then, like a blast from a water cannon. If Holly had somehow smuggled an acorn in here, then one square centimeter of ground would be enough. If Juliet left that door open . . .

"Juliet!" he shouted into the walkie-talkie. "Juliet! Don’t go in there!"

But it was useless. The girl’s walkie-talkie lay buzzing on the kitchen floor, and Artemis could only watch helplessly as Butler’s sister strode toward the cell door, muttering about carrots.

"The safe room!" exclaimed Butler, quickening his pace. His instinct was to go in all guns blazing, but training took over. Fairy hardware was most definitely superior to his own, and who knew how many barrels were aimed at the other side of that door right now. No, caution was most definitely the best part of valor in this particular situation.

He placed a palm against the wood, feeling for vibration. Nothing. No machinery then. Butler curled his fingers around the knob, twisting gently. With his other hand, he drew a Sig Sauer automatic from his shoulder holster. No time to fetch the dart rifle, he would have to shoot to kill.

The door swung open noiselessly, as Butler knew it would, having oiled every hinge in the house himself. Before him was . . . Well, to be honest, Butler wasn’t quite sure what it was. If he didn’t know better, that is at first glance, he could have sworn that the thing resembled nothing more than an enormous quivering. . . .

Suddenly the thing exploded, jettisoning an amazing amount of tunnel waste directly at the unfortunate manservant. It was like being battered with a hundred sledgehammers simultaneously. Butler was lifted bodily and flung against the wall.

And as he lay there, consciousness slipping away from him, he prayed that Master Artemis hadn’t managed to capture the moment on video.

Holly was weakening. The bed frame was nearly twice her body weight and the ridges were tearing cruel welts in her palms. But she couldn’t stop now. Not when she was so close.

She slammed the post into the concrete again. A cloud of gray dust spiraled around her legs. Any second now, Fowl would tumble to her plan and she’d get the hypodermic treatment again. But until then . . .

She gritted her teeth against the pain, heaving the bed frame to knee height. Then she saw it. A sliver of brown among the gray. Could it be true?

Pain forgotten, Captain Short dropped the bed, sinking quickly to her knees. There was indeed a small patch of earth poking through the cement. Holly fumbled the acorn from her boot, clasping it tightly in bloody fingers.

"I return you to the earth," she whispered, worming her fist into the tiny space. "And claim the gift that is my right."

Nothing happened for a heartbeat. Perhaps two. Then Holly felt the magic rush up her arm like a jolt from an electrified troll fence. The shock sent her spinning across the room. For a moment the world swirled in a disconcerting kaleidoscope of color, but when it settled, Holly was no longer the defeated elf she had been.

"Right, Master Fowl." She grinned, watching the blue sparks of fairy magic seal her wounds. "Let’s see what I have to do to get your permission to leave this place."

"Drop everything," sulked Juliet. "Drop everything and check the prisoner." She flicked blond tresses expertly over a shoulder. "He must think I’m his maid or something."

She hammered on the cell door with the flat of her hand.

"I’m coming in now, fairy girl, so if you’re doing anything embarrassing, please stop."

Juliet punched the combination into the keypad. "And no, I don’t have your vegetables, or your washed fruit. But it’s not my fault, Artemis in-sis-ted I come right down. . . ."

Juliet stopped talking, because there was nobody listening. She was preaching to an empty room. She waited for her brain to pass on an explanation. Nothing came. Eventually the notion to take another look filtered down.

She took a tentative step into the concrete cube. Nothing. Only a slight shimmering in the shadows. Like a mist. It was probably these stupid glasses. How were you supposed to see anything wearing mirrored sunglasses underground? And they were so nineties, they weren’t even retro yet.

Juliet glanced guiltily at the monitor. Just a quick peek, what harm could it do? She whipped up the frames, sending her eyeballs spinning around the room.

In that instant a figure materialized before her. Just stepped out of the air. It was Holly. She was smiling.

"Oh, it’s you. How did you—"

The fairy interrupted with a wave of her hand.

"Why don’t you take off those glasses, Juliet? They really don’t suit you."

She’s right, thought Juliet. And what a lovely voice. Like a choir all on its own. How could you argue with a voice like that?

"Sure. Caveman glasses off. Cool voice, by the way. Do re mi and all that."

Holly decided not to try deciphering Juliet’s comments. It was hard enough when the girl was in full control of her brain.

"Now. A simple question."

"No problem." What a great idea.

"How many people in the house?"

Juliet thought. One and one and one.

And another one? No, Mrs. Fowl wasn’t there.

"Three," she said finally. "Me and Butler and, of course, Artemis. Mrs. Fowl was here, but she went bye-bye, then she went bye-bye."

Juliet giggled. She’d made a joke. A good one too.

Holly drew a breath to ask for clarification, then thought better of it. A mistake, as it turned out.

"Has anyone else been here? Anyone like me?"

Juliet chewed her lip. "There was one little man. In a uniform like yours. Not cute, though. Not one bit. Just shouted and smoked a smelly cigar. Terrible complexion. Red as a tomato."

Holly almost smiled. Root had come himself. No doubt the negotiations had been disastrous.

"No one else?"

"Not that I know of. If you see that man again, tell him to lay off the red meat. He’s just a coronary waiting to happen."

Holly swallowed a grin. Juliet was the only human she knew who was probably more lucid under the mesmer.

"Okay. I’ll tell him. Now, Juliet, I want you to stay in my room, and no matter what you hear, don’t come out."

Juliet frowned. "This room? It’s so boring. No TV or anything. Can’t I go up to the lounge?"

"No. You have to stay here. Anyway, they’ve just installed a wall television. Cinema size. Wrestling, twenty-four hours a day."

Juliet almost fainted with pleasure. She ran into the cell, gasping as her imagination supplied the pictures.

Holly shook her head. Well, she thought, at least one of us is happy.

Mulch gave his rear end a shake to dislodge any clumps of earth. If only his mother could see him now, spraying mud on the Mud People. That was irony, or something like it. Mulch had never been big on vocabulary in school. That or poetry. He’d never seen the point. Down the mines, there were only two phrases of any importance: "Look, gold!" and "Cave-in, everybody out!" No hidden meanings there, or rhymes.

The dwarf buttoned his back flap, which had been blasted open by the gale emanating from his nether regions. Time to make a run for it. Whatever hope he’d had of escaping undiscovered had been blown. Literally.

Mulch retrieved his earpiece, screwing it firmly into his ear. Well, you never knew, even the LEP might prove useful.

". . . And when I get my hands on you, convict, you’ll wish you stayed down those mines . . ."

Mulch sighed. Ah well. Nothing new there then.

Clasping the safe’s treasure tightly in his fist, the dwarf turned to retrace his steps. To his utter amazement there was a human entangled in the banisters. Mulch was not one bit surprised that his recyclings had managed to hurl the elephantine Mud Man several yards through the air. Dwarf gas had been known to cause avalanches in the Alps. What did surprise him was the fact that the man had managed to get so close to him in the first place.

"You’re good," said Mulch, wagging a finger at the unconscious bodyguard. "But nobody takes a body blow from Mulch Diggums and stays on their feet."

The Mud Man stirred, the whites of his eyes showing beneath fluttering lids.

Root’s voice crackled in the dwarf’s ears. "Get a move on, Mulch Diggums, before that Mud Man gets up and rearranges your innards. He took out an entire Retrieval team, you know."

Mulch swallowed, his bravado suddenly deserting him.

"An entire Retrieval team? Maybe I should get back underground . . . for the good of the mission."

Skipping hurriedly around the groaning bodyguard, Mulch took the steps two at a time. No point in worrying about creaking stairs when you’ve just sent the intestinal equivalent of Hurricane Hal scurrying around the corridors.

He’d almost reached the cellar door when a figure shimmered into focus before him. Mulch recognized it as his arresting officer from the Renaissance Masters smuggling case.

"Captain Short."

"Mulch. I wasn’t expecting to see you."

The dwarf shrugged. "Julius had a dirty job. Someone had to do it."

"I get it." Holly nodded. "You’ve already lost your magic. Smart. What did you find out?"

Mulch showed Holly his find. "This was in his safe."

"A copy of the Book!" gasped Holly. "No wonder we’re in this fix. We were playing into his hands all along."

Mulch opened the cellar door. "Shall we?"

"I can’t. I’m under eyeball orders not to leave the house."

"You magical types and your rituals. You have no idea how liberating it is to be rid of all that mumbo jumbo."

A series of sharp noises drifted down from the upper landing. It sounded like a troll thrashing around in a crystal emporium.

"We can debate ethics at a later date. Right now I suggest we make ourselves scarce."

Mulch nodded. "Agreed. This guy took out an entire Retrieval squad apparently."

Holly paused, half shielded.

"An entire squad? Hmm. Fully equipped. I wonder . . ."

She continued her fade-out, and the last thing to go was her widening grin.

Mulch was tempted to hang around. There weren’t many things more fun to watch than a heavily armed Recon officer going to town on a bunch of unsuspecting humans. By the time Captain Short got through with this Fowl character, he’d be begging her to get out of his manor.

The Fowl character in question was watching it all from the surveillance room. There was no denying it. Things were not good. Not good at all. But certainly not irredeemable. There was still hope.

Artemis catalogued the events of the last few minutes. The manor’s security had been compromised. The safe room was in a shambles, blown apart by some sort of fairy flatulence. Butler lay unconscious, possibly paralyzed by the same gaseous anomaly. His hostage was loose in the house, her fairy powers restored to her. There was an unsightly creature in leather pants burrowing holes beneath the foundations with no apparent regard for the fairy commandments. And the People had retrieved a copy of the Book, one of several copies as it happened, including one on disk in a Swiss vault.

Artemis’s finger combed an errant strand of dark hair. He would have to dig very deep to uncover the good in this particular scenario. He took several deep breaths, finding his chi as Butler had taught him.

After several moments’ contemplation, he realized that these factors meant little to the overall strategies of both sides. Captain Short was still trapped in the manor. And the time-stoppage period was running out. Soon the LEP would have no option but to launch their bio-bomb, and that was when Artemis Fowl would unveil his coup de grâce. Of course, the whole thing depended on Commander Root. If Root was as intellectually challenged as he looked, it was quite possible the entire scheme would collapse around his ears. Artemis hoped fervently that someone on the fairy team had the wit to spot the blunder he’d made during the negotiation session.

Mulch unbuttoned his back flap. Time to suck some dirt, as they said down the mines. The trouble with dwarf tunnels was that they were self-sealing, so that if you had to go back the way you came, there was a whole new burrow to be excavated. Some dwarfs retraced their steps exactly, chewing through the less compact and predigested dirt. Mulch preferred to dig a fresh tunnel. For some reason, eating the same dirt twice didn’t appeal to him.

Unhinging his jaw, the dwarf pointed himself torpedo-like through the hole in the floorboards. His heart calmed immediately as the scent of minerals filled his nostrils. Safe, he was safe. Nothing could catch a dwarf underground, not even a Skaylian rock worm. That was, of course, if he managed to get underground . . .

Ten very powerful fingers gripped Mulch by the ankles. This just wasn’t the dwarf’s day. First Wart-Face, now this homicidal human. Some people never learn. Usually Mud People.

"Egg go," he mumbled, unhinged jaw flapping uselessly.

"Not a chance," came the reply. "The only way you’re leaving this house is in a body bag."

Mulch could feel himself being dragged backward. This human was strong. There weren’t many creatures that could dislodge a dwarf with a grip on something. He scrabbled in the dirt, cramming handfuls of wine-impregnated clay into his cavernous mouth. There was only one chance.

"Come on, you little goblin. Out of there."

Goblin! Mulch would have been indignant had he not been busy chewing clay to eject at his enemy.

The human stopped talking. Possibly he had noticed the flap, and probably what was behind it. No doubt what had happened in the safe room was coming back to him.

"Oh ..."

What would have followed the "Oh" is anyone’s guess, but I’d be willing to bet that it wouldn’t have been "Dearie me." As it happened, Butler never had time to finish his expletive, because he wisely chose that moment to relinquish his grip. A wise choice indeed, because it coincided with the instant Mulch decided to launch his earthen offensive.

A lump of compacted clay sped like a cannon directly at the spot where Butler’s head had been barely a second previously. Had it still occupied that space, the impact would have separated it from Butler’s shoulders. An ignoble end for a bodyguard of his caliber. As it was, the soggy missile barely grazed his ear. Nevertheless, the force was sufficient to spin Butler like an ice-skater, landing him on his rump for the second time in as many minutes.

By the time his vision had settled, the dwarf had disappeared into a maelstrom of churning muck. Butler decided not to attempt pursuit. Dying below ground was not very high on his things to do list. But there will be another day, fairy, he thought grimly. And there was to be. But that’s another story.

* * *


Mulch’s momentum propelled him underground. He’d gone several yards along the loamy vein before he realized no one was following. Once the taste of earth had settled his heart rate, he decided it was time to implement his escape plan.

The dwarf altered his course, chewing his way toward the rabbit warren he’d noted earlier. With any luck, the centaur hadn’t run a seismology test on the manor grounds, or his ruse might be discovered. He’d just have to bank on the fact that they had more important things to worry about than a missing prisoner. There shouldn’t be any problem deceiving Julius. But the centaur, he was a smart one.

Mulch’s internal compass steered him true, and within minutes he could feel the gentle vibrations of the rabbits loping along their tunnels. From here on timing was crucial if the illusion was to be effective. He slowed his digging rate, poking the soft clay gently until his fingers breached the tunnel wall. Mulch was careful to look the other way, because whatever he saw would be showing up on the viewscreen back in LEP HQ.

Laying his fingers on the tunnel floor like an upturned spider, Mulch waited. It didn’t take long. In seconds he felt the rhythmic thump of an approaching rabbit. The instant the animal’s hind legs brushed the trap, he tightened his powerful digits around its neck. The poor animal never had a chance.

Sorry, friend, thought the dwarf. If there was any other way . . . Pulling the rabbit’s body through the hole, Mulch rehinged his jaw and began screaming. "Cave-in! Cave-in! Help! Help!"

Now for the tricky bit. With one hand he agitated the surrounding earth, bringing showers of it crumbling around his own head. With the other hand he popped the iris-cam out of his left eye and slid it into the rabbit’s. Given the almost total darkness and the landfall confusion, it should be almost impossible to spot the switch.

"Julius! Please. Help me."

"Mulch! What’s happening? What’s your status?"

What’s my status? thought the dwarf incredulously. Even in times of supposed crisis, the commander couldn’t abandon his precious protocol.

"I . . . Argh . . ." The dwarf dragged his final scream out, petering off to a gargling rattle.

A bit melodramatic perhaps, but Mulch never could resist theatrics. With a last regretful glance at the dying animal, he unhinged his jaw and finned off to the southeast. Freedom beckoned.





CHAPTER 8

TROLL




Root leaned forward, roaring into the microphone.

"Mulch! What’s happening? What’s your status?"

Foaly was tapping a keyboard furiously.

"We’ve lost audio. Motion, too."

"Mulch. Talk to me, dammit."

"I’m running a scan on his vitals . . . Whoa!"

"What? What is it?"

"His heart has gone crazy. Beating like a rabbit . . ."

"A rabbit?"

"No, wait, it’s . . ."

"What?" breathed the commander, terribly afraid that he already knew.

Foaly leaned back in his chair. "It’s stopped. His heartbeat has stopped."

"Are you sure?"

"The monitors don’t lie. All vitals can be read through the iris-cam. Not a peep. He’s gone."

Root couldn’t believe it. Mulch Diggums, one of life’s constants. Gone? It couldn’t be true.

"He did it too, you know, Foaly. Recovered a copy of the Book no less, and he confirmed Short was alive."

Foaly’s wide brow creased for an instant."It’s just that ..."

"What?" said Root, suspicion aroused.

"Well, for a moment there, just before the end, his heart rate seemed abnormally fast."

"Maybe it was a malfunction."

The centaur was unconvinced. "I doubt it. My bugs don’t have bugs."

"What other explanation could there be? You still have visuals, don’t you?"

"Yep. Through dead eyes, no doubt about it. Not a spark of electricity in that brain; the camera is running on its own battery."

"Well, that’s it then. No other explanation."

Foaly nodded. "It would seem that way. Unless . . . No, it’s too fantastic."

"This is Mulch Diggums we’re talking about here. Nothing is too fantastic."

Foaly opened his mouth to voice his incredible theory, but before he could speak the shuttle’s bay door slid open.

"We have him!" said a triumphant voice.

"Yes!" agreed a second. "Fowl has made a mistake!"

Root swiveled on his chair. It was Argon and Cumulus, the so-called behavioral analysts.

"Oh, we’ve finally decided to earn our retainers, have we?"

But, united by excitement, the professors were not so easily intimidated. Cumulus even had the temerity to wave Root’s sarcasm aside. This more than anything else made the commander sit up and take notice.

Argon brushed past Foaly, pressing a laser disk into the console’s player. Artemis Fowl’s face appeared, as seen through Root’s iris-cam.

"We’ll be in touch," said the commander’s recorded voice. "Don’t worry, I’ll see myself out."

Fowl’s face disappeared momentarily as he rose from his chair. Root lifted his gaze in time for the next chilling statement.

"You do that. But remember this, none of your race has permission to enter here while I’m alive."

Argon pressed the pause button triumphantly. "There, you see!"

Root’s complexion lost any final traces of pallor.

"There? There what? What do I see?"

Cumulus tutted, as one would at a slow child. A mistake, in retrospect. The commander had him by the pointy beard in under a second.

"Now," he said, his voice deceptively calm. "Pretend we’re pushed for time here and just explain it to me without any attitude or comments."

"The human said we couldn’t enter while he was alive," squeaked Cumulus.

"So?"

Argon took up the account. "So . . . if we can’t go in while he’s alive . . ."

Root drew a sharp breath. "Then we go in when he’s dead."

Cumulus and Argon beamed. "Exactly," they said in perfect unison.

Root scratched his chin.

"I don’t know. We’re on shaky ground here legally."

"Not at all," argued Cumulus. "It’s elementary grammar. The human specifically stated that entry was forbidden as long as he was alive. That’s tantamount to an invitation when he’s dead."

The commander wasn’t convinced. "The invitation is implied, at best."

"No," interrupted Foaly. "They’re right. It’s a strong case. Once Fowl is dead, the door is wide open. He said it himself."

"Maybe."

"Maybe, nothing," blurted Foaly. "For heaven’s sake, Julius, how much more do you need? We have a crisis here, in case you hadn’t noticed."

Root nodded slowly. "One, you’re right. Two, I’m going to run with it. Three, well done, you two. And four, you ever call me Julius again, Foaly, you’ll be eating your own hooves. Now, get me a line to the Council. I need to get approval for that gold."

"Right away, Commander Root, your worship." Foaly grinned, letting the hoof-eating comment slide for Holly’s sake.

"So we send in the gold," muttered Root, thinking aloud. "They send out Holly, we blue-rinse the place and stroll in to reclaim the ransom. Simple."

"So simple it’s brilliant," enthused Argon. "Quite a coup for our profession, wouldn’t you say, Dr. Cumulus?"

Cumulus’s head was spinning with possibilities. "Lecture tours, book deals. Why, the movie rights alone will be worth a fortune."

"Let those sociologists stuff this in their collective pipe. Puts the kibosh on the deprivation-breeds-antisocial-behavior chestnut. This Fowl character has never gone hungry in his life."

"There’s more than one kind of hunger," noted Argon.

"Very true. Hunger to succeed. Hunger to dominate. Hunger to—"

Root snapped. "Get out! Get out before I strangle the pair of you. And if I ever hear a word of this repeated on an afternoon talk show, I’ll know where it came from."

The consultants retreated warily, resolving not to call their agents until they were out of earshot.

"I don’t know if the Council will go for this," admitted Root when they’d departed. "It’s a lot of gold."

Foaly looked up from the console. "How much exactly?"

The commander slid a piece of paper across the console. "That much."

"That is a lot." Foaly whistled. "A ton. Small unmarked ingots. Twenty-four carat only. Well, at least it’s a nice round weight."

"Very comforting. I’ll be sure to mention that to the Council. Have you got that line yet?"

The centaur grunted. A negative grunt. Very brazen really, grunting at a superior officer. Root didn’t have the energy to discipline him, but he made a mental note: when this is over, dock Foaly’s pay for a few decades. He rubbed his eyes exhaustedly. Time lag was beginning to set in. Even though his brain wouldn’t let him sleep because he’d been awake when the time-stop was initiated, his body was crying out for rest.

He rose from the chair, swinging the door wide to let in some air. Stale. Time-stop air. Not even molecules could escape the time-field, much less a human boy.

There was activity by the portal. Lots of it. A swarm of troops gathered around a hovercage. Cudgeon stood at the head of the procession, and the entire bunch was heading this way. Root stepped down to meet them.

"What’s this?" he inquired, none too pleasantly. "A circus?"

Cudgeon’s face was pale, but determined.

"No, Julius. It’s the end of the circus."

Root nodded. "I see. And these are the clowns?"

Foaly’s head poked through the doorway.

"Pardon me for interrupting your extended circus metaphor, but what the hell is that?"

"Yes, Lieutenant," said Root, nodding at the floating hovercage. "What the hell is that?"

Cudgeon bolstered his courage with a few deep breaths. "I’ve taken a leaf from your book, Julius."

"Is that a fact?"

"Yes. It is. You opted to send in a lapsed creature. So now I’m going to."

Root smiled dangerously. "You don’t opt to do anything, Lieutenant, not without my say-so."

Cudgeon took an unconscious step backward.

"I’ve been to the Council, Julius. I have their full backing."

The commander turned to Foaly. "Is this true?"

"Apparently. It just came through on the outside line. This is Cudgeon’s party now. He told the Council about the ransom demand and you springing Mister Diggums. You know what the elders are like when it comes to parting with gold."

Root folded his arms. "People told me about you, Cudgeon. They said you’d stab me in the back. I didn’t believe them. I was a fool."

"This is not about us, Julius. It’s about the mission. What’s inside this cage is our best chance of success."

"So what’s in the cage? No, don’t tell me. The only other nonmagical creature in the Lower Elements. And the first troll we’ve managed to take alive in over a century."

"Exactly. The perfect creature to flush out our adversary."

Root’s cheeks glowed with the effort of restraining his anger.

"I don’t believe you’re even considering this."

"Face it, Julius, it’s the same basic idea as yours."

"No, it isn’t. Mulch Diggums made his own choices. He knew the risks."

"Diggums is dead?"

Root rubbed his eyes again. "Yes. It would seem so. A cave-in."

"That just proves I’m right. A troll won’t be so easily dispatched."

"It’s a dumb animal, for heaven’s sake! How can a troll follow instructions?"

Cudgeon smiled, newborn confidence peeping through his apprehension.

"What instructions? We just point it at the house and get out of the way. I guarantee you those humans will be begging us to come in and rescue them."

"And what about my officer?"

"We’ll have the troll back under lock and key long before Captain Short is in any danger."

"You can guarantee that, can you?"

Cudgeon paused. "That’s a chance I’m willing . . . the Council is willing to take."

"Politics," spat Root. "This is all politics to you, Cudgeon. A nice feather in your cap on the way to a Council seat. You make me sick."

"Be that as it may, we are proceeding with this strategy. The Council has appointed me Acting Commander, so if you can’t put our personal history aside, get the hell out of my way."

Root stepped aside. "Don’t worry, Commander. I don’t want anything to do with this butchery. The credit is all yours."

Cudgeon put on his best sincere face. "Julius, despite what you think, I have only the interests of the People at heart."

"One person in particular," snorted Root.

Cudgeon decided to go for the high moral ground.

"I don’t have to stand here listening to this. Every second talking to you is a second wasted."

Root looked him straight in the eye. "That’s about six hundred years wasted altogether, eh, friend?"

Cudgeon didn’t answer. What could he say? Ambition had a price, and that price was friendship.

Cudgeon turned to his squad, a group of handpicked sprites, loyal only to him. "Get the hovercage over to the avenue. We don’t green-light until I give the word."

He brushed past Root, eyes looking anywhere except at his erstwhile friend. Foaly wouldn’t let him go without a comment.

"Hey, Cudgeon."

The Acting Commander couldn’t tolerate that tone, not on his first day.

"You watch your mouth, Foaly. No one is indispensable."

The centaur chuckled. "Very true. That’s the thing about politics, you get one shot."

Cudgeon was semi-interested in spite of himself.

"I know if it was me," continued Foaly, "and I had one chance, just one chance, to book my behind a seat on that Council, I certainly wouldn’t entrust my future to a troll."

And suddenly Cudgeon’s newfound confidence evaporated, replaced by a shiny pallor. He wiped his brow, hurrying after the departing hovercage.

"See you tomorrow," Foaly called after him. "You’ll be taking out my trash."

Root laughed. Possibly the first time one of Foaly’s comments had amused him.

"Good man, Foaly." He grinned. "Hit that backstabber where it hurts, right in the ambition."

"Thanks, Julius."

The grin disappeared faster than a deep-fried pit slug in the LEP canteen.

"I’ve warned you about the Julius thing, Foaly. Now get that outside line open again. I want that gold ready when Cudgeon’s plan goes awry. Lobby all my supporters on the Council. I’m pretty sure Lope’s one of mine, and Cahartez, possibly Vinyáya. She’s always had a thing for me, devilishly attractive as I am."

"You’re joking, of course."

"I never joke," said Root, and he said it with a straight face.

Holly had a plan, of sorts. Sneak around shielded, reclaim some fairy weaponry, then cause havoc until Fowl was forced to release her. And if several million Irish pounds’ worth of property damage happened to ensue, well, that was just a bonus.

Holly hadn’t felt so good in years. Her eyes blazed with power, and there were sparks sizzling below every centimeter of skin. She had forgotten just how good running hot felt.

Captain Short felt in control now, on the hunt. This was what she was trained to do. When this affair had started, the advantage had been with the Mud People. But now the boot was on the other foot. She was the hunter and they were the prey.

Holly scaled the great staircase, ever vigilant for the giant manservant. That was one individual she wasn’t taking any chances with. If those fingers closed around her skull, she was history, helmet or not, assuming she managed to find a helmet.

The vast house was like a mausoleum—without a single sign of life inside its vaulted rooms. Spooky portraits though. Each one with Fowl eyes, suspicious and glittering. Holly determined to torch the lot of them when she recovered her Neutrino 2000. Vindictive perhaps, but totally justified considering what Artemis Fowl had put her through.

She scaled the steps swiftly, following the curve around to the upper landing. A slot of pale light peeped from under the last door on the corridor. Holly placed her palm against the wood, feeling for vibration. Activity all right. Shouting and footsteps. Thundering this way.

Holly jumped back, flattening herself against the velveteen wallpaper. Not a moment too soon. A hulking shape burst through the doorway and hurtled down the corridor, leaving a maelstrom of air currents in his wake.

"Juliet!" he shouted, his sister’s name hanging in the air long after he had disappeared down the stairs.

Don’t worry, Butler, thought Holly. She’s having the time of her life glued to Wrestlemania. But the open door presented a welcome opportunity. She slipped through before the mechanical arm could close it again.

Artemis Fowl was waiting, anti-shield filters cobbled on to his sunglasses.

"Good evening, Captain Short," he began, confidence apparently intact. "At the risk of sounding clichéd, I’ve been expecting you."

Holly didn’t respond, didn’t even look her jailer in the eye. Instead she utilized her training to scan the room, her gaze resting briefly on each surface.

"You are, of course, still bound by the promises made earlier tonight. . . ."

But Holly wasn’t listening, she was sprinting toward a stainless-steel workbench bolted to the far wall.

"So, basically, our situation hasn’t changed. You are still my hostage."

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," muttered Holly, running her fingers over the rows of confiscated Retrieval equipment. She selected a stealth-coated helmet, slipping it over her pointed ears. The pneumatic pads pumped to cradle her crown. She was safe now. Any further commands given by Fowl meant nothing through the reflective visor. A wire mike slotted down automatically. Contact was immediate.

". . . on revolving frequencies. Broadcasting on revolving frequencies. Holly, if you can hear me, take cover."

Holly recognized Foaly’s voice. Something familiar in a crazy situation.

"Repeat. Take cover. Cudgeon is sending in a . . . "

"Something I should know?" said Artemis.

"Quiet," hissed Holly, worried by the tone of Foaly’s usually flippant voice.

"I say again, they are sending in a troll to secure your release."

Holly started. Cudgeon was calling the shots now. Not good news at all.

Fowl interrupted again.

"It’s not polite, you know. Ignoring your host."

Holly snarled. "Enough is enough."

She pulled back her fist, fingers curled in a tight bunch. Artemis didn’t flinch. Why would he? Butler always intervened before punches landed. But then something caught his eye, a large figure running down the stairway on the first-floor monitor. It was Butler.

"That’s right, rich boy," said Holly nastily. "You’re on your own this time."

And before Artemis’s eyes had time to widen, Holly put an extra few pounds of spring in her elbow and whacked her abductor right on the nose.

"Oof," he said, collapsing on to his rear end.

"Oh, yes! That felt good."

Holly focused on the voice buzzing in her ear.

". . . we’ve been feeding a loop to the outside cameras, so the humans won’t see anything come up the avenue. But it’s on the way, trust me."

"Foaly. Foaly, come in."

"Holly? Is that you?"

"The one and only. Foaly, there is no loop. I can see everything that’s going on around here."

"The cunning little . . . He must have rebooted the system."

The avenue was a hive of fairy activity. Cudgeon was there, haughtily directing his team of sprites. And in the center of the melee stood a sixteen-foot-tall hovercage, floating on a cushion of air. The cage was directly before the manor door, and the techies were securing a concussor seal to the surrounding wall. When activated, several alloy rods in the seal’s collar would be detonated simultaneously, effectively disintegrating the door. When the dust settled, the troll would have only one place to go—into the manor.

Holly checked the other monitors. Butler had managed to drag Juliet from the cell. They had ascended from the cellar level and were just crossing the lobby. Right in the line of fire.

"D’Arvit," she swore, crossing to the work surface.

Artemis was propped on his elbows. "You hit me," he said in disbelief.

Holly strapped on a set of Hummingbirds.

"That’s right, Fowl. And there’s plenty more where that came from. So stay right where you are, if you know what’s good for you."

For once in his life, Artemis realized that he didn’t have a snappy answer. He opened his mouth, waiting for his brain to supply the customary pithy comeback. But nothing arrived.

Holly slipped the Neutrino 2000 into its holster.

"That’s right, Mud Boy. Playtime’s over. Time for the professionals to take over. If you’re a good boy, I’ll buy you a lollipop when I come back."

And when Holly was long gone, soaring beneath the hallway’s ancient oak beams, Artemis said, "I don’t like lollipops."

It was a woefully inadequate response, and Artemis was instantly appalled with himself. Pathetic really: I don’t like lollipops. No self-respecting criminal mastermind would be caught dead even using the word lollipops. He really would have to put together a database of witty responses for occasions such as this.

It was quite possible that Artemis would have sat like that for some time, totally detached from the situation at hand, had not the front door imploded, shaking the manor to its foundations. A thing like that is enough to knock the daydreams from anyone’s head.

A sprite alighted before acting Commander Cudgeon.

"The collar is in place, sir."

Cudgeon nodded. "Are you sure it’s tight, Captain? I don’t want that troll coming out the wrong way."

"Tighter ’n a goblin’s wallet. There’s not a bubble of air getting through that seal. Tighter ’n a stink worm’s—"

"Very well, Captain," interrupted Cudgeon hurriedly, before the sprite could complete his graphic analogy.

Beside them the hovercage shook violently, almost toppling the container from its air cushion.

"We better blow that sucker, Commander. If we don’t let him outta there soon, my boys’re gonna spend the next week scraping . . ."

"Fine, Captain, fine. Blow it. Blow it for goodness sake."

Cudgeon hurried behind the blast shield, scribbling a note on his palmtop’s screen. Memo: Remind the sprites to watch their language. After all, I am a Commander now.

The foul-mouthed captain in question turned to the hovercage’s cab driver.

"Blow ’er, Chix. Blow the door off its damn hinges."

"Yessir. Off its damn hinges. That’s a roger."

Cudgeon winced. There’d be a general meeting tomorrow. First thing. By then he’d have the commander’s icon on his lapel. Even a sprite might be less likely to curse with the triple acorn logo winking in his face.

Chix pulled down his shrapnel goggles, even though the cab had a quartz windscreen. The goggles were cool. Girls loved them. Or so the driver thought. In his mind’s eye he saw himself as a grim-faced daredevil. Sprites were like that. Give a fairy a pair of wings and he thinks he’s God’s gift to women. But Chix Verbil’s ill-fated quest to impress the dames is, once again, another story. In this particular tale, he serves only one purpose. And that is to melodramatically push the detonate button. Which he does, with great aplomb.

Two dozen controlled charges detonated in their chambers, driving two dozen alloy cylinders out of their mounts at over a thousand miles per hour. Upon impact, each bar pulverized the contact area plus the surrounding fifteen centimeters, effectively blowing the door off its damn hinges. As the captain would say.

When the dust settled, the handlers winched back the containment wall inside the cage and began hammering the side panels with the flats of their hands.

Cudgeon peeped out from behind the blast shield.

"All clear, Captain?"

"Just a damn second, Commander. Chix? How’re we doin’?"

Chix checked the cab’s monitor.

"He’s movin’. The hammerin’ is spookin’ him. The claws are comin’ out. My, he’s a big sucker. I wouldn’t wanna be that Recon babe if she gets in the way of this."

Cudgeon felt a momentary pang of guilt, which he dispelled with his favorite daydream—a vision of himself sinking into a beige-velour Council seat.

The cage heaved violently, almost dislodging Chix from his seat. He held on like a rodeo rider.

"Whoa! He’s on the move. Lock and load, boys. I have a feeling that any second we’re going to be gettin’ a cry for help."

Cudgeon didn’t bother locking and loading. He preferred to leave that sort of thing to the foot soldiers. The Acting Commander considered himself too important to be risked in an insecure situation. For the good of the People in general, it was better he remain outside the op zone.

Butler took the stairs four at a time. It was possibly the first time he had ever abandoned Master Artemis in a time of crisis. But Juliet was family, and there was obviously something seriously wrong with his baby sister. That fairy had said something to her, and now she was just sitting in the cell giggling. Butler feared the worst. If anything were to happen to Juliet, he didn’t know how he’d live with himself.

He felt a dribble of sweat slide down the crown of his shaven head. This whole situation was shooting off in bizarre directions. Fairies, magic, and now a hostage loose in the manor. How could he be expected to control things? It took a four-man team to guard the lowliest politician, but he was expected to contain this impossible situation on his own.

Butler sprinted down the corridor into what had until recently been Captain Short’s cell. Juliet was sprawled on the cot, enraptured by a concrete wall.

"What are you doing?" he gasped, drawing the Sig Sauer nine-millimeter with practiced ease.

His sister barely spared him a glance. "Quiet, you big ape. Louie the Love Machine is on. He ain’t so tough, I could take him."

Butler blinked. She was talking gibberish. Obviously drugged.

"Let’s go. Artemis wants us upstairs in the situations room."

Juliet pointed a manicured finger at the wall.

"Artemis can wait. This is for the intercontinental title. And it’s a grudge match. Louie ate the Hogman’s pet piggie."

The manservant studied the wall. It was definitely blank. He didn’t have time for this.

"Right. Let’s go," he growled, slinging his sister over a broad shoulder.

"Nooo! You big bully," she protested, hammering his back with tiny fists. "Not now. Hogman! Hogmaaaan!"

Butler ignored the objections, settling into a loping run. Who the hell was this Hogman person? One of her boyfriends no doubt. He was going to keep closer tabs on callers to the lodge in future.

"Butler? Pick up."

It was Artemis, on the handheld. Butler jiggled his sister up a foot so he could reach his belt.

"Lollipops!" barked his employer.

"Say again. I thought you said—"

"Eh . . . I mean, get out of there. Take cover! Take cover!"

Take cover? The military term didn’t sound right coming out of Master Artemis’s mouth. Like a diamond ring in a lucky bag.

"Take cover?"

"Yes, Butler. Cover. I thought speaking in primal terms would be the quickest route to your cognitive functions. Obviously I was mistaken."

That was more like it. Butler scanned the hall for a nook to duck into. Not much choice. The only shelter was provided by the suits of medieval armor punctuating the walls. The manservant ducked into the alcove behind a fourteenth-century knight, complete with lance and mace.

Juliet tapped the breastplate.

"You think you’re mean? I could take you with one hand."

"Quiet," hissed Butler.

He held his breath and listened. Something was approaching the main door. Something big. Butler leaned out far enough to get one eye on the lobby. . . .

Then you could say that the doorway exploded. But that particular verb doesn’t do the action justice. Rather, it shattered into infinitesimal pieces. Butler had seen something like this once before when a force-seven earthquake had rippled through a Colombian drug lord’s estate seconds before he had been scheduled to blow it up. This was slightly different. More localized. Very professional. It was classic anti-terrorist tactics. Hit ’em with smoke and sonics, then go in while the targets were disoriented. Whatever was coming, it would be bad. He was certain of it. He was absolutely right.

Dust clouds settled slowly, depositing a pale sheet on the Tunisian rug. Madam Fowl would have been furious, if she ever put so much as a toe outside the attic door. Butler’s instincts told him to move. Zigzag across the ground floor, make for the higher ground. Stay low to minimize the target. This would be the perfect time to do it, before visibility cleared. Any second now, a hail of bullets would be whistling through the archway, and the last place he wanted to be was pinned down on a lower level.

And on any other day Butler would have moved. He would’ve been halfway up that stairway before his brain had time for second thoughts. But today he had his baby sister over his shoulder spouting gibberish, and the last thing he wanted to do was expose her to murderous assault fire. With Juliet in the state she was in, she’d probably challenge the fairy commandos to a tag-wrestling match. And though his sister talked tough, she was just a kid, really. No match for trained military personnel. So Butler hunkered down, propped Juliet against a tapestry behind a suit of armor, and checked his safety catch. Off. Good. Come and get me, fairy boys.

Something moved in the dust haze. It was immediately obvious to Butler that the something wasn’t human. The manservant had been on too many safaris not to recognize an animal when he saw it. He studied the creature’s gait.

Possibly simian. Similar upper body structure to an ape, but bigger than any primate Butler had ever seen. If it was an ape, then his handgun wasn’t going to be of much use. You could put five rounds in the skull of a bull ape and he’d still have time to eat you before his brain realized he was dead.

But it wasn’t an ape. Apes didn’t have night eyes. This creature did. Glowing crimson pupils, half-hidden behind shaggy forelocks. Tusks too, but not elephantine. These were curved, with serrated edges. Gutting weapons. Butler felt a tingle low in his stomach. He’d had the feeling once before. On his first day at the Swiss academy. It was fear.

The creature stepped clear of the dust haze. Butler gasped. Again, his first since the academy. This was like no adversary he’d ever faced before. The manservant realized instantly what the fairies had done. They had sent in a primal hunter. A creature with no interest in magic or rules. A thing that would simply kill anything in its way, regardless of species. This was the perfect predator. That much was clear from the meat-ripping points on its teeth, from the dried gore crusted beneath its claws, and from the distilled hatred spilling from its eyes.

The troll shambled forward, squinting through the chandelier light. Yellowed claws scraped along the marble tiling, throwing up sparks in their wake. It was sniffing now, snorting curious breaths, head cocked to one side.

Butler had seen that pose before—on the snouts of starved pit bulls, just before their Russian handlers set them loose on a bear hunt.

The shaggy head froze, its snout pointed directly at Butler’s hiding place. It was no coincidence. The manservant peeked out between the chain-mail fingers of a gauntlet. Now came the stalk. Once a scent had been acquired, the predator would attempt a slow silent approach, before the lightning strike.

But apparently the troll had not read the predator’s handbook, because it didn’t bother with the stealth approach, jumping directly to the lightning strike. Moving faster than Butler would have believed possible, the troll sprang across the lobby, brushing the medieval armor aside as though it were a shop mannequin.

Juliet blinked. "Ooh," she gasped. "It’s Bigfoot Bob. Canadian champion 1998. I thought you were in the Andes, looking for your relatives."

Butler didn’t bother to correct her. His sister wasn’t lucid. At least she would die happy. While his brain was contemplating this morbid observation, Butler’s gun hand was coming up.

He squeezed the trigger as rapidly as the Sig Sauer’s mechanism would allow. Two in the chest, three between the eyes. That was the plan. He got the chest shots in, but the troll interfered before Butler could complete the formation. The interference took the form of scything tusks that ducked below Butler’s guard. They coiled around his trunk, slicing through his Kevlar reinforced jacket like a razor through rice paper.

Butler felt a cold pain as the serrated ivory pierced his chest. He knew immediately that the wound was fatal. His breath came hard. That was a lung gone, and gouts of blood were matting the troll’s fur. His blood. No one could lose that amount and live. Nevertheless, the pain was instantly replaced by a curious euphoria. Some form of natural anesthetic injected through channels in the beast’s tusks. More dangerous than the deadliest poison. In minutes Butler would not only stop struggling, but go giggling to his grave.

The manservant fought against the narcotics in his system, struggling furiously in the troll’s grip. But it was no use. His fight was over almost before it had begun.

The troll grunted, flipping the limp human body over his head. Butler’s burly frame collided with the wall at a speed human bones were never meant to withstand. The bricks cracked from floor to ceiling. Butler’s spine went too. Now, even if the blood loss didn’t get him, paralysis would.

Juliet was still enthralled by the mesmer.

"Come on, brother. Get off the canvas. We all know you’re faking."

The troll paused, some basic curiosity piqued by the lack of fear. He would have suspected a trick, if he could have formulated such a complicated thought. But in the end, appetite won out. This creature smelled flesh. Fresh and tender. Flesh from above ground was different. Laced with surface smells. Once you’ve had open-air meat, it’s hard to go back. The troll ran a tongue over his incisors and reached out a shaggy hand. . . .

Holly tucked the Hummingbirds close to her torso, dropping into a controlled dive. She skimmed the banisters, emerging into the portico below a stained-glass dome. The time-stop light filtered unnaturally, splitting into thick azure shafts.

Light, thought Holly. The helmet high-beams worked before, there was no reason why they wouldn’t work again. It was too late for the male, he was a bag of broken bones. But the female, she still had a few seconds left before the troll split her open.

Holly spiraled down through the faux light, searching her helmet console for the Sonix button. Sonix was generally used on canines, but in this case it might provide a moment’s distraction. Enough to get her to ground level.

The troll was reaching in toward Juliet underhand. It was a move generally reserved for the defenseless. The claws would curl in below the ribs, rupturing the heart. Minimum damage to the flesh and no last-minute tension to toughen the meat.

Holly activated her Sonix . . . and nothing happened. Not good. Generally your average troll would be at the very least irritated by the ultra-high-frequency tone. But this particular beast didn’t even shake his shaggy head. There were a couple of possibilities: one, the helmet was malfunctioning; two, this troll was deaf as the proverbial post. Unfortunately, Holly had no way of knowing as the tones were inaudible to fairy ears.

Whatever the problem, it forced Holly to adopt a strategy she would rather not have resorted to. Direct contact. All to save a human’s life. She’d gone section eight. Without a doubt.

Holly jerked the throttle, straight from fourth to reverse. Not very good for the gears. She’d get a dressing-down from the mechanics for that, in the unlikely event she actually survived this never-ending nightmare. The effect of this gear-crunching was to flip her around in midair, so that her boot heels were pointed directly at the troll’s head. Holly winced. Two entanglements with the same troll. Unbelievable.

Her heels caught the beast square on the crown of its head. At that speed, there was at least half a ton of G-force behind the contact. Only the reinforced ribbing in her suit prevented Holly’s leg bones from shattering. Even so, she heard her knee pop. The pain clawed its way to her forehead. Ruined her recovery maneuver too. Instead of repelling herself to a safe altitude, Holly crumpled onto the troll’s back, becoming instantly entangled in the ropy fur.

The troll was suitably annoyed. Not only had something distracted it from dinner, but now that something was nestled in its fur, along with the cleaner slugs. The beast straightened, reaching a clawed hand over its own shoulder. The curved nails raked Holly’s helmet, scoring parallel grooves in the alloy. Juliet was safe for the moment, but Holly had taken her place on the endangered-individuals list.

The troll squeezed tighter, somehow securing a grip on the helmet’s anti-friction coating, which, according to Foaly, was impossible to grip. Serious words would be had. If not in this life, then definitely the next.

Captain Short found herself being hoisted aloft to face her old enemy. Holly struggled to concentrate through the pain and confusion. Her leg was swinging like a pendulum, and the troll’s breath was breaking over her face in rancid waves.

There had been a plan, hadn’t there? Surely she didn’t fly down here just to curl up and die. There must have been a strategy. All those years in the Academy must have taught her something. Whatever her plan had been, it floated just out of reach somewhere between pain and shock. Out of reach.

"The lights, Holly . . ."

A voice in her head. Probably talking to herself. An out-of-head experience. Ha ha. She must remember to tell Foaly about this . . . Foaly?

"Hit the lights, Holly. If those tusks get to work, you’ll be dead before the magic can kick in."

"Foaly? Is that you?" Holly may have said this aloud, or she may just have thought it. She wasn’t sure.

"The tunnel high beams, Captain!" A different voice. Not so cuddly. "Hit the button now! That’s an order!"

Oops. It was Root. She was falling down on the job again. First Hamburg, then Martina Franca, now this.

"Yessir," she mumbled, trying to sound professional.

"Press it! Now, Captain Short!"

Holly looked the troll straight in its merciless eyes and pressed the button. Very melodramatic. Or it would have been, if the lights had worked. Unfortunately for Holly, in her haste she’d grabbed one of the helmets cannibalized by Artemis Fowl. Hence no Sonix, no filters, and no tunnel beams. The halogen bulbs were still installed, but the wires had come loose during Artemis’s investigations.

"Oh, dear," breathed Holly.

"Oh, dear?" barked Root. "What’s that supposed to mean?"

"The beams are off-line," explained Foaly.

"Oh . . ." Root’s voice trailed off. What more was there to say?

Holly squinted at the troll. If you didn’t know trolls were dumb animals, you’d swear the beast was grinning. Standing there with blood dripping from various chest wounds, grinning. Captain Short didn’t like being grinned at.

"Laugh this off," she said, and butted the troll with the only weapon available to her. Her helmeted head.

Valiant undoubtedly, but about as effective as trying to cut down a tree with a feather. Luckily, the ill-advised blow had a side effect. For a split second, two strands of conductor filament connected, sending power flooding to one of the tunnel beams. Four hundred watts of white light blasted through the troll’s crimson eyes, dispatching lightning rods of agony to the brain.

"Heh heh," mumbled Holly, in the second before the troll convulsed involuntarily. Its spasms sent her spinning across the parquet floor, leg jittering along behind her.

The wall was approaching at an alarming speed. Maybe, thought Holly hopefully, this will be one of those impacts where you don’t feel any pain until later. No, replied her pessimistic side, afraid not. She slammed into a Norman narrative tapestry, bringing it tumbling down on top of her. Pain was immediate and overwhelming.

"Ooof," grunted Foaly. "I felt that. Visuals are shot. Pain sensors went right off the scale. Your lungs are busted, Captain. We’re going to lose you for a while. But don’t worry, Holly, your magic should be kicking in already."

Holly felt the blue tingle of magic scurrying to her various injuries. Thank the gods for acorns. But it was too little too late. The pain was way beyond her threshold. Just before unconsciousness claimed her, Holly’s hand flopped from beneath the tapestry. It landed on Butler’s arm, touching the bare skin. Amazingly, the human wasn’t dead. A dogged pulse forced the blood through smashed limbs.

Heal, thought Holly. And the magic scurried down her fingers.

The troll faced a dilemma—which female to eat first. Choices, choices. This decision was not made any easier by the lingering agony buzzing around its shaggy head, or the cluster of bullets lodged in the fatty chest tissue. Eventually it settled on the surface dweller. Soft human meat. No dense fairy muscle to chew through.

The beast squatted low, tilting the girl’s chin with one yellowed talon. A pulsing jugular looped lazily down the length of her neck. The heart or the neck? the troll wondered. The neck, it was closer. It turned the talon sideways, so that the edge pressed against soft human flesh. One sharp swipe and the girl’s own heartbeat would drive the blood from her body.

Butler woke up, which was a surprise in itself. He knew immediately that he was alive, because of the searing pain permeating every cubic centimeter of his body. This was not good. Alive he may have been, but considering the fact that his neck had a one-eighty twist on it, he’d never so much as walk the dog again, not to mention rescue his sister.

The manservant twiddled his fingers. Hurt like hell, but at least there was movement. It was amazing that he had any motor functions at all, considering the trauma his spinal column had suffered. His toes seemed all right too, but that could have been phantom response, given that he couldn’t actually see them.

The bleeding from his chest wound appeared to have stopped and he was thinking straight. All in all, he was in much better shape than he had any right to be. What in heaven’s name was going on here?

Butler noticed something. There were blue sparks dancing along his torso. He must be hallucinating, creating pleasant images to distract himself from the inevitable. A very realistic hallucination, it must be said.

The sparks congregated at trauma points, sinking into the skin. Butler shuddered. This was no hallucination. Something extraordinary was happening here. Magical.

Magic? That rang a bell in his recently reassembled cranium. Fairy magic. Something was healing his wounds. He twisted his head, wincing at the grate of sliding vertebrae. There was a hand resting on his forearm. Sparks flowed from the slim elfin fingers, intuitively targeting bruises, breaks, or ruptures. There were a lot of injuries to be dealt with, but the tiny sparks handled it all quickly and effectively. Like an army of mystical beavers repairing storm damage.

Butler could actually feel his bones knitting and the blood retreating from semicongealed scabs. His head twisted involuntarily as his vertebrae slid into their niches, and strength returned in a rush as magic reproduced the three liters of blood lost through his chest wound.

Butler jumped to his feet—actually jumped. He was himself again. No. It was more than that. He was as strong as he had ever been. Strong enough to have another crack at that beast hunkered over his baby sister.

He felt his rejuvenated heart speed up like the stroke of an outboard motor. Calm, Butler told himself. Passion is the enemy of efficiency. But calm or no, the situation was desperate. This beast had already effectively killed him once, and this time he didn’t even have the Sig Sauer. His own skills aside, it would be nice to have a weapon. Something with a bit of weight to it. His boot clinked on a metallic object. Butler glanced down at the debris strewn in the troll’s wake. . . . Perfect.

There was nothing but snow on the view screen.

"Come on," urged Root. "Hurry up!"

Foaly elbowed past his superior.

"Maybe if you didn’t insist on blocking all the circuit boards."

Root shuffled out of the way grudgingly. In his mind it was the circuit board’s fault for being behind him. The centaur’s head disappeared into an access panel.

"Anything?"

"Nothing. Just interference."

Root slapped the screen. Not a good idea. First, because there was not one chance in a million that it could actually help, and second, because plasma screens grow extremely hot after prolonged use.

"D’Arvit!"

"Don’t touch that screen, by the way."

"Oh, ha ha. We have time for jokes now, do we?"

"No, actually. Anything?"

The snow settled into recognizable shapes.

"That’s it, hold it there. We’ve got a signal."

"I’ve activated the secondary camera. Plain old video, I’m afraid, but it’ll have to do."

Root didn’t comment. He was watching the screen. This must be a movie. It couldn’t be real life.

"So what’s going on in there? Anything interesting?"

Root tried to answer, but his soldier’s vocabulary just didn’t have the superlatives.

"What? What is it?"

The commander made an attempt. "It’s . . . the human . . . I’ve never . . . Oh, forget it, Foaly. You’re going to have to see this for yourself."

* * *


Holly watched the entire episode through a gap in the tapestry folds. If she hadn’t seen it, she wouldn’t have believed it. In fact, it wasn’t until she’d reviewed the video for her report that she was certain the whole thing wasn’t a hallucination brought on by a near-death experience. As it was, the video sequence became something of a legend, initially doing the rounds on the Amateur Home Movies cable shows and ending up on the LEP Academy Hand-to-Hand curriculum.

The human, Butler, was strapping on a medieval suit of armor. Incredible as it seemed, he apparently intended going toe-to-toe with the troll. Holly tried to warn him, tried to make some sound, but the magic hadn’t yet reinflated her crushed lungs.

Butler closed his visor, hefting a vicious mace.

"Now," he grunted through the grille. "I’ll show you what happens when someone lays a hand on my sister."

The human twirled the mace as though it were a cheerleader’s baton, ramming it home between the troll’s shoulder blades. A blow like that, while not fatal, certainly distracted the troll from its intended victim.

Butler planted his foot just above the creature’s haunches and tugged the weapon free. It relinquished its grip with a sickly sucking sound. He skipped backward, settling into a defensive stance.

The troll rounded on him, all ten talons sliding out to their full extent. Drops of venom glistened from the tip of each tusk. Playtime was over. But there would be no lightning strike this time. The beast was wary, it had been hurt. This latest attacker would be afforded the same respect as another male of the species. As far as the troll was concerned, his territory was being encroached on. And there was only one way of solving a dispute of this nature. The same way that trolls solved every dispute. . . .

"I must warn you," said Butler, straight-faced. "I am armed and prepared to use deadly force if necessary."

Holly would have groaned if she could. Banter! The human was trying to engage a troll in macho repartee! Then Captain Short realized her mistake. The words weren’t important, it was the tone he employed. Calm, soothing. Like a trainer with a spooked unicorn.

"Step away from the female. Easy, now."

The troll ballooned its cheeks and howled. Scare tactics. Testing the waters. Butler didn’t flinch.

"Yeah, yeah. Real scary. Now just back out of the door and I won’t have to cut you into little pieces."

The troll snorted, miffed by this reaction. Generally his roar sent whatever creature was facing it scurrying down the tunnel.

"One step at a time. Nice and slow. Easy there, big fellow."

You could almost see it in the troll’s eyes. A flicker of uncertainty. Maybe this human was . . .

And that was when Butler struck. He danced under the tusks, hammering home a devastating uppercut with his medieval weapon. The troll staggered backward, talons flailing wildly. But it was too late—Butler had stepped out of reach, scooting across to the other side of the corridor.

The troll lumbered after him, spitting dislodged teeth from pulped gums. Butler sank to his knees, sliding and turning, the polished floor bearing him like an ice-skater. He ducked and pirouetted, facing his pursuer.

"Guess what I found?" he said, raising the Sig Sauer.

No chest shots this time. Butler laid in the rest of the automatic’s clip in a ten-centimeter diameter between the troll’s eyes. Unfortunately for Butler, due to millennia spent butting each other, trolls have developed a thick ridge of bone covering their brows. So his textbook spread failed to penetrate the skull, in spite of the Teflon-coated load.

However, ten Devastator slugs can’t be ignored by any creature on the planet, and the troll was no exception. The bullets beat a sledgehammer tattoo on its cranium, causing instant concussion. The animal staggered backward, slapping at its own forehead. Butler was after it in a heartbeat, pinning one shaggy foot beneath the mace spikes.

The troll was concussed, blinded by blood, and lame. A normal person would feel a shard of remorse, but not Butler. He’d seen too many men gored by injured animals.

Now was the dangerous time. It was no time for mercy, it was time to terminate with extreme prejudice.

Holly could only watch helplessly as the human took careful aim and delivered a series of crippling blows to the stricken creature. First he took out the tendons, bringing the troll to its knees, then he abandoned the mace and went to work with gauntleted hands, perhaps deadlier than the mace had been. The unfortunate troll fought back pathetically, even managing to land a few glancing blows. But they failed to penetrate the antique armor. Meanwhile Butler toiled like a surgeon. Working on the assumption that the troll and human physiques were basically the same, he rained blow after blow on the dumb creature, reducing it to a heap of quivering fur in so many seconds. It was pitiful to watch. And the manservant wasn’t finished yet. He stripped off the bloodied gauntlets, loading a fresh clip into the handgun.

"Let’s see how much bone you have under your chin."

"No," gasped Holly, with the first breath in her body. "Don’t."

Butler ignored her, jamming the barrel beneath the troll’s jaw.

"Don’t do it. . . . You owe me."

Butler paused. Juliet was alive, it was true. Confused certainly, but alive. He thumbed the hammer on his pistol. Every brain cell in his head screamed for him to pull the trigger. But Juliet was alive.

"You owe me, human." Butler sighed. He’d regret this later. "Very well, Captain. The beast lives to fight another day. Lucky for him, I’m in a good mood." Holly made a noise. It was somewhere between a whimper and a chuckle. "Now let’s get rid of our hairy friend." Butler rolled the unconscious troll on to an armored

trolley, dragging it to the devastated doorway. With a huge heave, he jettisoned the lot into the suspended night. "And don’t come back," he shouted.

"Amazing," said Root. "Tell me about it," agreed Foaly.





CHAPTER 9

ACE IN THE HOLE




Artemis tried the doorknob and got a scorched palm for his trouble. Sealed. The fairy must have blasted it with her weapon. Very astute. One less variable in the equation. It was exactly what he himself would have done.

Artemis did not waste any time attempting to force open the door. It was reinforced steel, and he was twelve. You didn’t have to be a genius to figure it out, even though he was. Instead the Fowl heir apparent crossed to the monitor wall and followed developments from there.

He knew immediately what the LEP were up to—send in the troll to secure a cry for help, interpret it as an invitation, and next thing you know a brigade of goblin storm troopers were taking the manor. Clever. And unanticipated. It was the second time he’d underestimated his opponents. One way or another, there wouldn’t be a third.

As the drama below unfolded on the monitors, Artemis’s emotions jumped from terror to pride. Butler had done it. Defeated the troll, and without a single plea for aid passing his lips. Watching the display, Artemis appreciated fully, perhaps for the first time, the service provided by the Butler family.

Artemis activated the tri-band radio, broadcasting on revolving frequencies.

"Commander Root, you are monitoring all channels I presume. . . ."

For a few moments nothing but white noise emanated from the micro speakers, then Artemis heard the sharp click of a mike button.

"I hear you, human. What can I do for you?"

"Is that the commander?"

A noise filtered through the black gauze. It sounded like a whinny.

"No. This is not the commander. This is Foaly, the centaur. Is that the kidnapping lowlife human?"

It took Artemis a moment to process the fact that he’d been insulted.

"Mister . . . ah . . . Foaly. You have obviously not studied your psych texts. It is not wise to antagonize the hostage-taker. I may be unstable."

"May be unstable? There’s no may about it. Not that it matters. Soon you’ll be no more than a cloud of radioactive molecules."

Artemis chuckled. "That’s where you are mistaken, my quadruped friend. By the time that bio-bomb is detonated, I will be long gone from this time-stop."

It was Foaly’s turn to chuckle. "You’re bluffing, human. If there was a way to escape the field, I would have found it. I think you’re talking through your—"

Thankfully it was at that moment Root took over at the microphone.

"Fowl? This is Commander Root. What do you want?"

"I would just like to inform you, Commander, that in spite of your attempted betrayal, I am still willing to negotiate."

"That troll had nothing to do with me," protested Root. "It was done against my wishes."

"The fact is that it was done, and by the LEP. Whatever trust we had is gone. So here is my ultimatum. You have thirty minutes to send in the gold, or else I will refuse to release Captain Short. Furthermore, I will not take her with me when I leave the time-field, leaving her to be disintegrated by the bio-bomb."

"Don’t be a fool, human. You’re deluding yourself. Mud technology is aeons behind ours. There is no way to escape the time-field."

Artemis leaned in close to the mike, smiling his wolfish smile.

"There’s only one way to find out, Root. Are you willing to bet Captain Short’s life on your hunch?"

Root’s hesitation was highlighted by the hiss of interference. His reply, when it came, was tinged with just the right note of defeat.

"No," he sighed. "I’m not. You’ll have your gold, Fowl. A ton. Twenty-four carat."

Artemis smirked. Quite the actor, our Commander Root.

"Thirty minutes, Commander. Count the seconds if your clock’s stopped. I’m waiting. But not for long."

Artemis terminated the contact, settling back in the swivel chair. It would seem as though the bait had been taken. No doubt the LEP analysts had discovered his accidental invitation. The fairies would pay up because they believed the gold would be theirs again as soon as he was dead. Vaporized by the bio-bomb. Which, of course, he wouldn’t be. In theory.

Butler put three rounds into the door frame. The door itself was steel and would have sent the Devastator slugs ricocheting straight back at him. But the frame was the original porous stone used to build the manor. It crumbled like chalk. A very basic security flaw, and one that would have to be remedied once this business was over.

Master Artemis was waiting calmly in his chair by the monitor bank.

"Nice work, Butler."

"Thank you, Artemis. We were in trouble for a moment there. If it hadn’t been for the captain . . ."

Artemis nodded. "Yes. I saw. Healing, one of the fairy arts. I wonder why she did it."

"I wonder too," said Butler softly. "We certainly didn’t deserve it."

Artemis glanced up sharply. "Keep the faith, old friend. The end is in sight."

Butler nodded; he even attempted a smile. But even though there were plenty of teeth in the grin, there was no heart.

"In less than an hour, Captain Short will be back with her people and we will have sufficient funds to relaunch some of our more tasteful enterprises."

"I know. It’s just . . ."

Artemis didn’t have to ask. He knew exactly what Butler was feeling. The fairy had saved both their lives and yet he insisted on holding her to ransom. To a man of honor like Butler, this was almost more than he could bear.

"The negotiations are over. One way or another she will be returned to her kind. No harm will befall Captain Short. You have my word."

"And Juliet?"

"Yes?"

"Is there any danger to my sister?"

"No. No danger."

"The fairies are just going to give us this gold and walk away?"

Artemis snorted gently. "No, not exactly. They’re going to bio-bomb Fowl Manor the second Captain Short is clear."

Butler took a breath to speak, but hesitated. Obviously there was more to the plan. Master Fowl would tell him when he needed to know. So instead of quizzing his employer, he made a simple statement.

"I trust you, Artemis."

"Yes," replied the boy, the weight of that trust etched on his brow. "I know."

Cudgeon was doing what politicians did best: trying to duck responsibility.

"Your officer helped the humans," he blurted, mustering as much indignation as possible. "The entire operation was proceeding exactly as planned, until your female attacked our deputy."

"Deputy?" chortled Foaly. "Now the troll’s a deputy."

"Yes. He is. And that human made mincemeat of him. This entire situation could be wrapped up if it wasn’t for your department’s incompetence."

Ordinarily, Root would have blown his top at this point, but he knew that Cudgeon was grasping at straws, desperately trying to save his career. So the commander just smiled.

"Hey, Foaly?"

"Yes, Commander?"

"Did we get the troll assault on disk?"

The centaur heaved a dramatic sigh. "No, sir, we ran out of disks just before the troll went in."

"What a pity."

"A real shame."

"Those disks could have been invaluable to Acting Commander Cudgeon at his hearing."

Cudgeon’s cool went out the window. "Give me those disks, Julius! I know they’re in there! This is blatant obstruction."

"You’re the only one guilty of obstruction around here, Cudgeon. Using this affair to further your own career."

Cudgeon’s face took on a hue to match Root’s own. The situation was slipping away from him and he knew it. Even Chix Verbil and the other sprites were sidling out from behind their leader.

"I am still in charge here, Julius, so hand over those disks or I will have you detained."

"Oh, really? You and whose army?"

For a second Cudgeon’s face glowed with the old pomposity. It evaporated the moment he noticed the conspicuous lack of officers at his shoulders.

"That’s right," snickered Foaly. "You ain’t Acting Commander any more. The call came through from below. You’ve got an appointment with the Council, and I don’t think it’s to offer you a seat."

It was probably Foaly’s grin that drove Cudgeon over the edge.

"Give me those disks!" he roared, pinning Foaly to the operation’s shuttle.

Root was tempted to let them wrestle for a while, but now wasn’t the time to indulge himself.

"Naughty naughty," he said, pointing his index finger at Cudgeon. "No one beats Foaly but me."

Foaly paled. "Careful with that finger. You’re still wearing the—"

Root’s thumb accidentally brushed his knuckle, opening a tiny gas valve. The released gas propelled a tranquilized dart through the latex fingertip and straight into Cudgeon’s neck. The Acting Commander, soon to be Private, sank like a stone.

Foaly rubbed his neck. "Nice shot, Commander."

"I don’t know what you’re talking about. Total accident. I forgot all about the fake finger. There are several precedents, I believe."

"Oh, absolutely. Unfortunately Cudgeon will be unconscious for several hours. By the time he awakens, all the excitement will be over."

"Shame." Root allowed himself a fleeting grin, then it was back to business. "Is the gold here?"

"Yep, they just inserted it."

"Good." He called to Cudgeon’s sheepish troops. "Get it loaded on a hovertrolley, and send it in. Any trouble and I’ll feed you your wings. Understood?"

No one actually replied, but it was understood. No doubt about it.

"Good. Now hop to it."

Root disappeared into the operation’s shuttle, Foaly clopping behind him. The Commander shut the door firmly.

"Is it armed?"

The centaur flicked a few important-looking switches on the main console.

"It is now."

"I want it launched as soon as possible." He glanced through the laserproof refractor glass. "We’re down to minutes here. I see sunlight poking through."

Foaly bent to his keyboard in earnest. "The magic is breaking up. In fifteen minutes we’re going to be in the middle of overground daytime. The neutrino streams are losing their integrity."

"I see," said Root, which was basically a lie again. "Okay, I don’t see. But I do get the fifteen minutes bit. That gives you ten minutes to get Captain Short out of there. After that we’re going to be sitting ducks for the entire human race."

Foaly activated yet another camera. This one was linked to the hovertrolley. He ran a finger experimentally across a trackpad. The trolley shot forward, almost decapitating Chix Verbil.

"Nice driving," muttered Root. "Will it get up the steps?"

Foaly didn’t even look up from his computers.

"Automatic clearance compensator. A five-foot collar. No problems."

Root speared him with a glare. "You do that just to annoy me, don’t you?"

Foaly shrugged his shoulders. "I might."

"Yes, well, count yourself lucky my other fingers aren’t loaded. Get my meaning?"

"Yessir."

"Good. Now let’s bring Captain Short home."

Holly hovered beneath the portico. Orange shards of light striped the blue. The time-stop was breaking up. There were only minutes left before Root blue-rinsed the whole place. Foaly’s voice buzzed in her earpiece.

"Okay, Captain Short. The gold is on the way. Be ready to move."

"We don’t bargain with kidnappers," said Holly, surprised. "What’s going on here?"

"Nothing," replied Foaly casually. "Straightforward exchange. The gold goes in, you come out. We send in the missile. Big blue bang, and it’s all over."

"Does Fowl know about the bio-bomb?"

"Yep. Knows all about it. Claims he can escape the time-field."

"That’s impossible."

"Correct."

"But they’ll all be killed!"

"Big deal," retorted Foaly, and Holly could almost see him shrug. "That’s what you get when you mess with the People."

Holly was torn. There was no doubt that Fowl was a danger to the civilized underworld. Very few tears would be shed over his body. But the girl, Juliet—she was an innocent. She deserved a chance.

Holly descended to an altitude of six and a half feet. Head height for Butler. The humans had congregated in the wreckage that used to be a hallway. There was disunity between them. The LEP officer could sense it.

Holly glared accusingly at Artemis. "Have you told them?"

Artemis returned her stare. "Told them what?"

"Yes, Fairy, told us what?" echoed Juliet belligerently, still a bit miffed over the mesmerizing.

"Don’t play dumb, Fowl. You know what I’m talking about."

Artemis never could play dumb for very long. "Yes, Captain Short. I do. The bio-bomb. Your concern would be touching, if it extended to myself. Nevertheless, do not upset yourself. Everything is proceeding according to plan."

"According to plan!" gasped Holly, pointing to the devastation surrounding them. "Was this part of the plan? And Butler almost getting killed—all part of the plan?"

"No," Artemis admitted. "The troll was a slight blip. But irrelevant to the overall scheme."

Holly resisted the urge to punch the pale human again, turning instead to Butler.

"Listen to reason, for heaven’s sake. You cannot escape the time-field. It has never been done."

Butler’s features could have been etched in stone.

"If Artemis says it can be done, then it can."

"But your sister. Are you willing to risk her life out of loyalty to a felon?"

"Artemis is no felon, miss, he is a genius. Now please remove yourself from my sightline. I am monitoring the main entrance."

Holly buzzed up to twenty feet.

"You’re crazy. All of you! In five minutes you’ll all be dust. Don’t you realize?"

Artemis sighed. "You’ve had your answer, Captain. Now, please. This is a delicate stage in the proceedings."

"Proceedings? It’s a kidnapping! At least have the guts to call it what it is."

Artemis’s patience was beginning to fray.

"Butler, do we have any tranquilizer hypodermics left?"

The giant manservant nodded, but didn’t speak. At that precise moment, if the order came to sedate, he wasn’t sure if he would, or could. Luckily Artemis’s attention was diverted by activity in the avenue.

"Ah, it would seem the LEP have capitulated. Butler, supervise the delivery. But stay alert. Our fairy friends are not above trickery."

"You’re a fine one to talk," muttered Holly.

Butler hurried to the demolished doorway, checking the load and catch on his Sig Sauer nine-millimeter. He was almost grateful for some military activity to distract him from his dilemma. In situations like these, training took over. There was no room for sentiment.

A fine haze of dust still hung in the air. Butler squinted through it, into the avenue beyond. The fairy filters rigged over his eyes revealed that there were no warm bodies approaching. There was, however, a large trolley seemingly driving itself up to the front door. It was floating on a cushion of shimmering air. Doubtless Master Artemis would have understood the physics of this machine; all Butler cared about was whether or not he could disable it.

The trolley bumped into the first step.

"Automatic compensator, my foot," snorted Root.

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," replied Foaly. "I’m working on it."

"It’s the ransom," shouted Butler.

Artemis tried to quell the excitement rising in his chest. This was not the time to allow emotions to enter the equation.

"Check for booby traps."

Butler stepped cautiously on to the porch. Shards of disintegrated gargoyle lay scattered beneath his feet.

"No hostiles. Seems to be self-propelled."

The trolley lurched over the steps.

"I don’t know who’s driving this thing, but he could do with a few lessons."

Butler bent low to the ground, scanning the trolley’s underside.

"No explosive devices visible."

He extracted a Sweeper from his pocket, extending the telescopic aerial.

"No bugs either. Nothing detectable at any rate. But what do we have here?"

"Uh-oh," said Foaly.

"It’s a camera."

Butler reached in, pulling the fish-eye lens out by the cable.

"Nighty-night, gentlemen."

In spite of the load it carried, the trolley responded easily to Butler’s touch, gliding across the threshold into the lobby. It stood there humming softly, as though waiting to be unloaded.

Now that the moment had come, Artemis was almost afraid to seize it. It was hard to believe that after all these months, his wicked scheme was minutes away from fruition. Of course these last few minutes were the vital ones, and the most dangerous.

"Open it," he said at last, surprised at the tremble in his own voice.

It was an irresistible instant. Juliet approached tentatively, spangled eyes wide. Even Holly closed the throttle a notch, dropping until her feet brushed the marble tiling. Butler unzipped the black tarpaulin, dragging it back across the cargo.

Nobody said a thing. Artemis imagined that somewhere the 1812 Overture was playing. The gold sat there, stacked in shining rows. It seemed to have an aura, a warmth, but also an inherent danger. There were a lot of people willing to die or kill for the unimaginable wealth this gold could bring.

Holly was mesmerized. Fairies have an affinity for minerals, they are of the earth. But gold was their favorite. Its luster. Its allure.

"They paid," she breathed. "I can’t believe it."

"Neither can I," murmured Artemis. "Butler, is it real?"

Butler hefted a bar from the stack. He dug the tip of a throwing knife into the ingot, gouging out a small sliver.

"It’s real all right," he said, holding the scraping up to the light. "This one, at any rate."

"Good. Very good. Begin unloading it, would you? We’ll send the trolley back out with Captain Short."

Hearing her name dispelled Holly’s gold fever.

"Artemis, give it up. No human has ever succeeded in keeping fairy gold. And they’ve been trying for centuries. The LEP will do anything to protect their property."

Artemis shook his head. Amused.

"I’ve told you . . ."

Holly took him by the shoulders. "You cannot escape! Don’t you understand?"

The boy returned her gaze coolly.

"I can escape, Holly. Look in my eyes and tell me that I can’t."

So she did. Captain Holly Short gazed into her captor’s blue-black eyes, and she saw the truth in there. And for a moment she believed it.

"There’s still time," she said desperately. "There must be something. I have magic."

A crease of annoyance wrinkled the boy’s brow.

"I hate to disappoint you, Captain, but there is absolutely nothing."

Artemis paused, his gaze tugged momentarily upstairs to the converted loft. Perhaps, he thought. Do I really need all this gold? And was his conscience not needling him, leaching some of the sweetness from his victory? He shook himself. Stick to the plan. Stick to the plan. No emotion.

Artemis felt a familiar hand on his shoulder.

"Everything all right?"

"Yes, Butler. Keep unloading. Get Juliet to help. I need to talk to Captain Short."

"Are you sure there’s nothing wrong?"

Artemis sighed. "No, old friend, I’m not sure. But it’s too late now."

Butler nodded, returning to his task. Juliet toddled along behind him like a terrier.

"Now, Captain. About your magic."

"What about it?" Holly’s eyes were hooded with suspicion.

"What would I have to do to buy a wish?"

Holly glanced at the trolley."Well, that depends. What do you have to bargain with?"

Root was not what you’d call relaxed. Increasingly wide bands of yellow light were poking through the blue. Minutes left. Minutes. His migraine was not helped by the pungent cigar feeding toxins into his system.

"Have all nonessential personnel been evacuated?"

"Unless they’ve sneaked back in since the last time you asked me."

"Not now, Foaly. Believe me, now is not the time. Anything from Captain Short?"

"Nope. We lost video after the troll thing. I’d guess the battery is ruptured. We’d better get that helmet off her ASAP, or the radiation will fry her brain. That’d be a pity after all this work."

Foaly returned to his console. A red light began pulsing gently.

"Wait, motion sensor. We’ve got activity by the main entrance."

Root crossed to the screens. "Can you enhance it?"

"No problem." Foaly punched in the coordinates, blowing it up four hundred percent.

Root sat down on the nearest chair.

"Am I seeing what I think I’m seeing?"

"You sure are." Foaly chuckled. "This is even better than the suit of armor."

Holly was coming out. With the gold.

Retrieval was on her in half a second.

"Let’s get you out of the danger zone, Captain," urged a sprite, catching Holly by the elbow.

Another ran a rad-sensor over her helmet.

"We’ve got a power source breach here, Captain. We need to get your head sprayed immediately."

Holly opened her mouth to protest, and had it instantly filled with rad-suppressant foam.

"Can’t this wait?" she spluttered.

"Sorry, Captain. Time is of the essence. The commander wants a debriefing before we detonate."

Holly was rushed toward the Mobile Ops unit, her feet barely touching the ground. All around her Retrieval Cleaners scanned the grounds for any trace of the siege. Techies dismantled the field dishes, making ready to pull the plug. Grunts steered the trolley toward the portal. It was imperative that everything be relocated to a safe distance before the bio-bomb went in.

Root was waiting on the steps.

"Holly," he blurted. "I mean, Captain. You made it."

"Yessir. Thank you, sir."

"And the gold too. This is a real feather in your cap."

"Well, not all, Commander. About half, I think."

Root nodded. "No matter. We’ll have the rest soon enough."

Holly wiped rad-foam from her brow.

"I’ve been thinking about that, sir. Fowl made a mistake. He never ordered me not to reenter the house, and seeing as he brought me in there in the first place, the invitation still stands. I could go in and mind-wipe the occupants. We could hide the gold in the walls and do another time-stop tomorrow night. . . ."

"No, Captain."

"But, sir . . ."

Root’s features regained whatever tension they’d lost.

"No, Captain. The Council is not about to hold off for some kidnapping Mud Man. It’s just not going to happen. I have my orders, and believe me they’re written in stone."

Holly trailed Root into the mobile.

"But the girl, sir. She’s an innocent!"

"Casualty of war. She threw her lot in with the wrong side. Nothing can be done for her now."

Holly was incredulous. "A casualty of war? How can you say that? A life is a life."

Root spun sharply, grasping her by the shoulders.

"You did what you could, Holly," he said. "No one could have done more. You even retrieved most of the ransom. You’re suffering from what humans call Stockholm Syndrome: you have bonded with your captors. Don’t worry, it will pass. But those people in there, they know. About us. Nothing can save them now."

Foaly looked up from his calculations.

"Not true. Technically. Welcome back, by the way."

Holly couldn’t spare even a second to return the greeting.

"What do you mean not true?"

"I’m fine, seeing as you asked."

"Foaly!" shouted Root and Holly in unison.

"Well, like the Book says: ‘If the Mud Man gold can gather, In spite of magick or fairy glamor, Then that gold is his to keep, Until he lies in eternal sleep.’ So if he lives, he wins. It’s that simple. Not even the Council will go against the Book."

Root scratched his chin. "Should I be worried?"

Foaly laughed mirthlessly. "No. Those guys are as good as dead."

"As good as isn’t good enough."

"Is that an order?"

"Affirmative, soldier."

"I’m not a soldier," said Foaly, and pressed the button.

Butler was more than a little surprised.

"You gave it back?"

Artemis nodded. "About half. We still have quite a nest egg. About fifteen million dollars at today’s market prices."

Butler usually wouldn’t ask. But this time he had to. "Why, Artemis? Can you tell me?"

"I suppose so." The boy smiled. "I felt we owed the captain something. For services rendered."

"Is that all?"

Artemis nodded. No need to talk about the wish. It could be perceived as weakness.

"Hmm," said Butler, smarter than he looked.

"Now, we should celebrate," enthused Artemis, deftly changing the subject. "Some champagne, I think."

The boy strode to the kitchen before Butler’s gaze could dissect him.

By the time the others caught up, Artemis had already filled three glasses with Dom Perignon.

"I’m a minor, I know, but I’m sure Mother wouldn’t mind. Just this once."

Butler felt that something was afoot. Nevertheless, he took the crystal flute offered to him.

Juliet looked at her big brother.

"Is this okay?"

"I suppose so." He took a breath. "You know I love you, don’t you, sis?"

Juliet scowled—something else that the local louts found very endearing. She smacked her brother on the shoulder.

"You’re so emotional for a bodyguard."

Butler looked his employer straight in the eye.

"You want us to drink this, don’t you, Artemis?"

Artemis met his gaze squarely. "Yes, Butler. I do."

Without another word Butler drained his glass, Juliet followed suit. The manservant tasted the tranquilizer immediately, and although he would have had ample time to snap Artemis Fowl’s neck, he didn’t. No need for Juliet to be distressed in her final moments.

Artemis watched his friends sink to the floor. A pity to deceive them. But if they had been alerted to the plan, their anxiety could have counteracted the sedative. He gazed at the bubbles swirling in his own glass. Time for the most audacious step in his scheme. With only the barest hint of hesitation, he swallowed the tranquilizer-laced champagne.

Artemis waited calmly for the drug to take hold of his system. He didn’t have to wait long, since each dose had been calculated according to body weight. As his thoughts began to swirl, it occurred to him that he might never awaken again. It’s a bit late for doubts, he chided himself, and sank into unconsciousness.

* * *


"She’s away," said Foaly, leaning back from the console. "It’s out of my hands now."

They followed the missile’s progress through polarized windows. It really was a remarkable piece of equipment. Because its main weapon was light, the fallout could be focused to an exact radius. The radioactive element used in the core was solinium 2, which had a half-life of fourteen seconds. This effectively meant that Foaly could tune the bio-bomb to blue-rinse only Fowl Manor and not one blade of grass more, plus the building would be radiation-free in under a minute. In the event that a few solinium flares refused to be focused, they would be contained by the time-field. Murder made easy.

"The flight path is preprogrammed," explained Foaly, though no one was paying a blind bit of attention. "She’ll sail into the lobby and detonate. The casing and firing mechanism are plastic alloy and will completely disintegrate. Clean as a whistle."

Root and Holly followed the bomb’s arc. As predicted, it swooped through the decimated doorway without knocking so much as a sliver of stone from the medieval walls. Holly switched her attention to the missile’s nose-cam. For a moment she caught a glimpse of the grand hallway where she had, until recently, been a prisoner. It was empty. Not a human in sight. Maybe, she thought. Just maybe. Then she looked at Foaly and the technology at his fingertips. And she realized that the humans were as good as dead.

The bio-bomb detonated. A blue orb of condensed light crackled and spread, filling every corner of the manor with its deadly rays. Flowers withered, insects shriveled, and fish died in their tanks. Not one cubic millimeter was spared. Artemis Fowl and his cohorts could not have escaped. It was impossible.

Holly sighed, turning away from the already dwindling blue-rinse. For all his grand designs, Artemis had been a mere mortal in the end. And for some reason she mourned his passing.

Root was more pragmatic. "Okay. Suit up. Full blackout gear."

"It’s perfectly safe," said Foaly. "Didn’t you ever listen in school?"

The commander snorted. "I trust science about as far as I could throw you, Foaly. Radiation has a habit of hanging around when certain scientists have assured us it has dissipated. No one steps outside the unit without blackout gear. So that counts you out, Foaly. Only bipedal suits. Anyway I want you on monitors, just in case. . . ."

In case of what? wondered Foaly, but he didn’t comment. Save it for an I told you so later.

Root turned to Holly.

"Are you ready, Captain?"

Going back in. The idea of identifying three cadavers didn’t appeal to Holly. But she knew it was her duty. She was the only one with firsthand knowledge of the interior.

"Yessir. On my way."

Holly selected a blackout suit from the rack, pulling it on over her jumpsuit. As per training, she checked the gauge before tugging the vulcanized cowl. A dip in pressure would indicate a rip, which could prove fatal in the long term.

Root lined up the insertion team at the perimeter. The remains of Retrieval One were about as eager to insert themselves into the manor as they would be to juggle Atlantean stink balloons.

"You’re certain the big one is gone?"

"Yes, Captain Kelp. He’s gone, one way or another."

Trouble wasn’t convinced. "Because that’s one mean human. I think he has magic of his own."

Corporal Grub giggled, and got an immediate clip on the ear for himself. He muttered something about telling Mommy and quickly strapped on his helmet.

Root felt his complexion redden. "Let’s move out. Your mission is to locate and recover the bullion. Watch for booby traps. I didn’t trust Fowl when he was alive, and I definitely don’t trust him now that he’s dead."

The words "booby traps" got everyone’s attention. The idea of a Bouncing Betty anti-personnel mine exploding at head height was enough to dispel any nonchalance in the troops. No one built weapons of cruelty like the Mud Men.

As the junior Recon officer, Holly was on point. And even though there weren’t supposed to be any hostiles in the manor, she found her gun hand automatically straying to the Neutrino 2000.

The mansion was eerily quiet, with only the fizzle of the last few solinium flares to alleviate the stillness. Death was there too, in the silence. The manor was a cradle of death. Holly could smell it. Behind those medieval walls lay the bodies of a million insects, and under its floors the cooling corpses of spiders and mice.

They approached the doorway tentatively. Holly swept the area with an X-ray scanner. Nothing under the flagstones but dirt, and a nest of dead money-spiders.

"Clear," she said into her microphone. "I’m going in. Foaly, have you got your ears on?"

"I’m right there with you, darlin’," replied the centaur. "Unless you step on a land mine, in which case I’m way back in the Operations Room."

"Are you getting any thermals?"

"Not after a blue-rinse. We have residual heat signatures all over the place. Mostly solinium flares. It won’t calm down for a couple of days."

"But no radiation, right?"

"That’s right."

Root snorted in disbelief. Over the headsets it sounded like an elephant sneezing.

"It looks like we’re going to have to sweep this house the old-fashioned way," he grumbled.

"Make it quick," advised Foaly. "I give it five minutes tops before Fowl Manor rejoins the world at large."

Holly stepped through what used to be the doorway. The chandelier swung gently from the concussive force of the missile’s detonation, but otherwise everything was as she remembered it.

"The gold is downstairs. In my cell."

Nobody answered. Not in words. Someone did manage a retch. Right into the microphone. Holly spun around. Trouble was doubled over, clutching his stomach.

"I don’ feel so good," he groaned. A tad unnecessarily, considering the pool of vomit all over his boots.

Corporal Grub took a breath, possibly to utter a sentence containing the word Mommy. What came out was a jet of concentrated bile. Unfortunately Grub didn’t have the opportunity to open his visor before the illness struck. It was not a pretty sight.

"Ugh," said Holly, pressing the corporal’s visor-release button. A tsunami of regurgitated rations flooded over Grub’s blackout suit.

"Oh, for heaven’s sake," muttered Root, elbowing past the brothers. He didn’t get very far. One step over the threshold and he was throwing up with the rest of them.

Holly pointed her helmet-cam at the stricken officers.

"What the hell is going on here, Foaly?"

"I’m searching. Hold on."

Holly could hear computer keys being punched furiously.

"Okay. Sudden vomiting. Spatial nausea . . . Oh no."

"What?" asked Holly. But she already knew. Maybe she always had.

"It’s the magic," blurted Foaly, words barely decipherable in his excitement. "They can’t enter the house until Fowl is dead. It’s like an extreme allergic reaction. That means, unbelievable, that means . . ."

"They made it," completed Holly. "He’s alive. Artemis Fowl is alive."

"D’Arvit," groaned Root, and heaved another quart of vomit onto the terra-cotta tiles.

Holly went on alone. She had to see for herself. If Fowl’s corpse was here, it would be with the gold, of that she was certain.

The same family portraits glared down at her, but now they seemed smug rather than austere. Holly was tempted to loose a few blasts into them from the Neutrino 2000. But that would be against the rules. If Artemis Fowl had beaten them, then that was it. There would be no recriminations.

She descended the stairway to her cell. The door was still swinging slightly from the bio-bomb concussion. A solinium flare ricocheted around the room like a trapped bolt of blue lightning. Holly stepped inside, half-afraid of what she might or might not see.

There was nothing. Nothing dead at any rate. Just gold. Two hundred ingots approximately. Piled on the mattress of her cot. Nice neat military rows. Good old Butler, the only human ever to take on a troll and win.

"Commander? Are you receiving? Over."

"Affirmative, Captain. Body count?"

"Negative on the bodies, sir. I found the rest of the ransom."

There was along silence.

"Leave it, Holly. You know the rules. We’re pulling out."

"But, sir. There must be a way. . . ."

Foaly broke in on the conversation. "But nothing, Captain. I’m counting down the seconds until daylight here, and I don’t like our odds if we have to exit at high noon."

Holly sighed. It made sense. The People could chose their exit time, as long as they left before the field disintegrated. It just galled her to think they’d been beaten by a human. An adolescent human at that.

She took a last look around the cell. A big ball of hatred had been born here, she realized, and it would have to be dealt with sooner or later. Holly jammed her pistol back into its holster. Preferably sooner. Fowl was the winner this time, but someone like him wouldn’t be able to rest on his laurels. He would be back with some other moneymaking scheme. And when he arrived, he would find Holly Short waiting for him. Waiting with a big gun and a smile.

The ground was soft by the time-stop perimeter. Half a millennium’s bad drainage from the medieval walls had transformed the foundations into a virtual bog. So that was where Mulch surfaced.

The soft ground wasn’t the only reason for choosing that exact spot. The other reason was the smell. A good tunnel dwarf can pick up the scent of gold through half a mile of granite bedrock. Mulch Diggums had one of the best noses in the business.

The hovertrolley floated virtually unguarded. Two of Retrieval’s finest were stationed beside the recovered ransom, but at the moment they were having a little giggle at their stricken commander.

"’E can’t half chuck it, can’t’e, Chix?"

Chix nodded, mimicking Root’s spewing technique.

Chix Verbil’s pantomime antics provided the perfect cover for a spot of pilfering. Mulch gave his tubes a clearing before clambering from the tunnel. The last thing he needed was for a sudden burst of gas to alert the LEP to his presence. He needn’t have worried. He could have slapped Chix Verbil in the face with a wet stink worm, and the sprite wouldn’t have noticed.

In a matter of seconds, he had transferred two dozen ingots into the tunnel. It was the easiest job he had ever pulled. Mulch had to stifle a giggle as he dropped the last two bars down the hole. Julius had really done him a favor, getting him involved in this whole affair. Things couldn’t have worked out much better. He was free as a bird, rich, and best of all presumed dead. By the time the LEP realized that the gold was missing, Mulch Diggums would be half a continent away. If they realized at all.

The dwarf lowered himself into the ground. It would take several trips to move his treasure trove, but it would be worth the delay. With this kind of money, he could take early retirement. He would have to completely disappear of course, but a plan was already forming in his devious mind.

He would live above ground for a spell. Masquerade as a human dwarf, with an aversion to light. Perhaps buy a penthouse with thick blinds. In Manhattan perhaps, or Monte Carlo. It might seem odd, of course, a dwarf shutting himself away from the sun. But then again, he would be an obscenely rich dwarf. And humans will accept any story, however outlandish, when there’s something in it for them. Preferably something green that folds.

Artemis could hear a voice calling his name. There was a face behind the voice, but it was blurred, hard to make out. His father, perhaps?

"Father?" The word was strange in his mouth. Unused. Rusty. Artemis opened his eyes.

Butler was leaning over him. "Artemis. You’re awake."

"Ah, Butler. It’s you."

Artemis got to his feet, head spinning with the effort. He expected Butler’s hand at his elbow to steady him. It didn’t come. Juliet was lying on a chaise longue, dribbling onto the cushions. Obviously the draft hadn’t worn off yet.

"It was just sleeping pills, Butler. Harmless."

The manservant’s eyes had a dangerous glint. "Explain yourself."

Artemis rubbed his eyes. "Later, Butler. I’m feeling a bit—"

Butler stepped into his path. "Artemis, my sister is lying drugged on that couch. She was almost killed. So explain yourself now!"

Artemis realized that he’d been given an order. He considered being offended, then decided that perhaps Butler was right. He had gone too far.

"I didn’t tell you about the sleeping pills because you’d fight them. It’s only natural. And it was imperative to the plan that we all go to sleep immediately."

"The plan?"

Artemis lowered himself into a comfortable chair.

"The time-field was the key to this whole affair. It’s the LEP’s ace in the hole. It’s what has made them unbeatable for all these years. Any incident can be contained. That and the bio-bomb make a formidable combination."

"So why did we have to be drugged?"

Artemis smiled. "Look out the window. Don’t you see? They’re gone. It’s over."

Butler glanced through the net curtains. The light was bright and clear. Not a hint of blue. Nevertheless, the manservant was unimpressed. "They’re gone for now. They’ll be back tonight, I guarantee it."

"No. That’s against the rules. We beat them. That’s it, game over."

Butler raised an eyebrow."The sleeping pills, Artemis?"

"Not to be distracted, I see."

Butler’s answer was an implacable silence.

"The sleeping pills. Very well. I had to think of a way to escape the time-field. I trawled through the Book, but there was nothing. Not a clue. The People themselves have not yet developed a way. So I went back to their Old Testament, back when their lives and ours were intertwined. You know the stories—elves that made shoes during the night, sprites that cleaned houses. Back when we coexisted to a certain extent. Magical favors in exchange for their fairy forts. The big one, of course, was Santa Claus."

Butler’s eyebrows nearly jumped off the front of his face.

"Santa Claus?"

Artemis raised his palms. "I know, I know. I was a tad skeptical myself. But apparently our little corporate-image Santa Claus is not descended from a Turkish saint, he is a shadow of San D’Klass, the third king of the Frond Elfin dynasty. He is known as San the Deluded."

"Not a great title, as titles go."

"Admittedly. D’Klass thought that the greed of the Mud People in his kingdom could be assuaged by distributing lavish gifts. He would marshal all the great wizards once a year and have them throw up a great time-stop over vast regions. Flocks of sprites would be sent out to deliver the presents while the humans were asleep. Of course, it didn’t work. Human greed can never be assuaged, especially not by gifts."

Butler frowned. "What if the humans . . . we, that is . . . What if we had woken up?"

"Ah yes. Excellent question. The heart of the matter. We wouldn’t wake up. That is the nature of the time-stop. Whatever your state of consciousness going in, that’s how you stay. You can neither wake up nor fall asleep. You must have noticed the fatigue in your bones these last few hours, yet your mind would not let you sleep."

Butler nodded. Things were getting clearer, in a roundabout sort of way.

"So my theory was that the only way to escape the time-field was to simply fall asleep. Our own consciousness was all that kept us imprisoned."

"You risked an awful lot on a theory, Artemis."

"Not just a theory. We did have a test subject."

"Who? Ah, Angeline."

"Yes. My mother. Because of her narcotic-induced slumber, she moved with the natural order of time, unhindered by the time-field. If she had not, I would have simply surrendered to the LEP and submitted to their mind wipe."

Butler snorted. He doubted it.

"So, because we could not fall asleep naturally, I simply administered us all a dose of Mother’s pills. Simple."

"You cut it pretty fine, though. Another minute . . . "

"Agreed." The boy nodded. "Things were tense there at the end. It was necessary in order to double-bluff the LEP."

He paused so that Butler could process the information.

"Well, am I forgiven?"

Butler sighed. On the chaise lounge, Juliet snored like a drunken sailor. He smiled suddenly.

"Yes, Artemis. All is forgiven. Just one thing . . ."

"Yes?"

"Never again. Fairies are too . . . human."

"You’re right," said Artemis, the crow’s feet deepening around his eyes. "Never again. We shall restrict ourselves to more tasteful ventures in the future. Legal, I can’t promise."

Butler nodded. It was close enough.

"Now, young Master, shouldn’t we check on your mother?"

Artemis grew paler, if that were possible. Could the captain have reneged on her promise? She would certainly be entitled to.

"Yes. I suppose we should. Let Juliet rest. She’s earned it."

He cast his eyes upward, along the stairs. It had been too much to hope for that he could trust the fairy. After all, he had held her captive against her will. He berated himself silently. Imagine parting with all those millions for the promise of a wish. Oh, the gullibility.

Then the loft door opened.

Butler drew his weapon instantly.

"Artemis, behind me. Intruders."

The boy waved him away. "No, Butler. I don’t think so."

His heart pounded in his ears, blood pulsed in his fingertips. Could it be? Could it possibly be? A figure appeared on the stairs. Wraithlike in a toweled robe, her hair wet from the shower.

"Arty?" she called. "Arty, are you there?"

Artemis wanted to answer, he wanted to race up the grand stairway, arms outstretched. But he couldn’t. His cerebral functions had deserted him.

Angeline Fowl descended, one hand resting lightly on the banister. Artemis had forgotten how graceful his mother was. Her bare feet skipped over the carpeted steps and soon she was standing before him.

"Morning, darling," she said brightly, as though it were just another day.

"M-Mother," stammered Artemis.

"Well, give me a hug."

Artemis stepped into his mother’s embrace. It was warm and strong. She was wearing perfume. He felt like the boy he was.

"I’m sorry, Arty," she whispered into his ear.

"Sorry for what?"

"For everything. For the last few months, I haven’t been myself. But things are going to change. Time to stop living in the past."

Artemis felt a tear on his cheek. He wasn’t sure whose tear it was.

"And I don’t have a present for you."

"A present?" said Artemis.

"Of course," sang his mother, spinning him around. "Don’t you know what day it is?"

"Day?"

"It’s Christmas Day, you silly boy. Christmas Day! Presents are traditional, are they not?"

Yes, thought Artemis. Traditional. San D’Klass.

"And look at this place. Drab as a mausoleum. Butler?"

The manservant hurriedly pocketed his Sig Sauer.

"Yes, ma’am?"

"Get on the phone to Brown Thomas. The platinum set number. Reopen my account. Tell Hélène I want a Yuletide makeover. The works."

"Yes, ma’am. The works."

"Oh, and wake up Juliet. I want my things moved into the main bedroom. That attic is far too dusty."

"Yes, ma’am. Right away, ma’am."

Angeline Fowl linked her son’s arm.

"Now, Arty, I want to know everything. First of all, what happened here?"

"Remodeling," said Artemis. "The old doorway was riddled with damp."

Angeline frowned, completely unconvinced. "I see. And how about school? Have you decided on a career?"

While his mouth answered these everyday questions, Artemis’s mind was in turmoil. He was a boy again. His life was going to change utterly. His plans would have to be much more devious than usual if they were to escape his mother’s attention. But it would be worth it.

Angeline Fowl was wrong. She had brought him a Christmas present.





EPILOGUE




Now that you have reviewed the case file, you must realize what a dangerous creature this Fowl is.

There is a tendency to romanticize Artemis. To attribute to him qualities that he does not possess. The fact that he used his wish to heal his mother is not a sign of affection. He did it simply because the Social Services were already investigating his case, and it was only a matter of time before he was put into care.

He kept the existence of the People quiet only so that he could continue to exploit them over the years, which he did on several occasions. His one mistake was leaving Captain Short alive. Holly became the LEP’s foremost expert in the Artemis Fowl cases, and was invaluable in the fight against the People’s most feared enemy. This fight was to continue across several decades.

Ironically, the greatest triumph for both protagonists

was the time they were forced to cooperate during the goblin insurgence. But that’s another story.

Report compiled by Dr. J. Argon, B. Psych, for the LEP Academy files. Details are 94% accurate, 6% unavoidable extrapolation.


The End





Don’t miss the thrilling sequel to

ARTEMIS FOWL:



THE ARCTIC INCIDENT

The loss of her husband had had a profound effect on Angeline Fowl. She had retreated to her room, refusing to go outside. She had taken refuge in her mind, preferring dreams of the past to real life. It is doubtful that she would have recovered had not her son, Artemis the Second, done a deal with the elf Holly Short: his mother’s sanity in return for half the ransom gold he had stolen from the fairy police. His mother safely restored, Artemis Junior focused his efforts on locating his father, investing large chunks of the family fortune in Russian excursions, local intelligence, and Internet search companies.

Young Artemis had received a double share of Fowl guile. But with the recovery of his mother, a moral and beautiful lady, it became increasingly difficult for him to realize his ingenious schemes, schemes that were ever more necessary to fund the search for his father.

Angeline, distraught over her son’s obsession and afraid of the effects of the past year on Artemis’s mind, signed her thirteen-year-old up for treatment with the school counselor.

You have to feel sorry for him. The counselor, that is ...


Saint Bartleby’s School for Young Gentlemen, County Wicklow, Ireland; Present Day




Dr. Po leaned back in his padded armchair, eyes flicking across the page in front of him.

"Now, Master Fowl, let’s talk, shall we?"

Artemis sighed deeply, smoothing his dark hair back from a wide, pale brow. When would people learn that a mind such as his could not be dissected? He himself had read more psychology textbooks than the counselor. He had even contributed an article to The Psychologists’ Journal, under the pseudonym Dr. F. Roy Dean Schlippe.

"Certainly, Doctor. Let’s talk about your chair. Victorian?"

Po rubbed the leather arm fondly. "Yes, quite correct. Something of a family heirloom. My grandfather acquired it at auction in Sotheby’s. Apparently it once stood in the palace. The Queen’s favorite."

A taut smile stretched Artemis’s lips perhaps half an inch.

"Really, Doctor. They don’t generally allow fakes in the palace."

Po’s grip stretched the worn leather. "Fake? I assure you, Master Fowl, this is completely authentic."

Artemis leaned in for a closer examination. "It’s clever, I grant you. But look here."

Po’s gaze followed the youth’s finger.

"Those furniture tacks. See the crisscross pattern on the head? Machine tooled. Nineteen twenty at the earliest. Your grandfather was duped. But what matter? A chair is a chair. A possession of no importance, eh, Doctor?"

Po scribbled furiously, burying his dismay. "Yes, Artemis, very clever. Just as your file says. Playing your little games. Now shall we get back to you?"

Artemis Fowl the Second straightened the crease in his trousers. "There is a problem here, Doctor."

"Really? And what might that be?"

"The problem is that I know the textbook answers to any question you care to ask."

Dr. Po jotted in his pad for a full minute. "We do have a problem, Artemis. But that’s not it," he said eventually.

Artemis almost smiled. No doubt the doctor would treat him to another predictable theory. Which disorder would he have today? Multiple personality perhaps, or maybe he’d be a pathological liar?

"The problem is that you don’t respect anyone enough to treat them as an equal."

Artemis was thrown by the statement. This doctor was smarter than the rest.

"That’s ridiculous. I hold several people in the highest esteem."

Po did not glance up from his notebook.

"Really? Who, for example?"

Artemis thought for a moment. "Albert Einstein. His theories were usually correct. And Archimedes, the Greek mathematician."

"What about someone whom you actually know?"

Artemis thought hard. No one came to mind.

"What? No examples?"

Artemis shrugged. "You seem to have all the answers, Dr. Po, why don’t you tell me?"

Po opened a window on his laptop. "Extraordinary. Every time I read this—"

"My biography, I presume?"

"Yes, it explains a lot."

"Such as?" asked Artemis, interested in spite of himself.

Dr. Po printed off a page.

"Firstly, there’s your associate, Butler. A bodyguard, I understand. Hardly a suitable companion for an impressionable boy. Then there’s your mother. A wonderful woman in my opinion, but with absolutely no control over your behavior. Finally, there’s your father. According to this, he wasn’t much of a role model, even when he was alive."

The remark stung, but Artemis wasn’t about to let the doctor realize how much.

"Your file is mistaken, Doctor," he said. "My father is alive. Missing perhaps, but alive."

Po checked the sheet. "Really? I was under the impression that he has been missing for almost two years. Why, the courts have declared him legally dead."

Artemis’s voice was devoid of emotion, though his heart was pounding. "I don’t care what the courts say, or the Red Cross. He is alive, and I will find him."

Po scratched another note.

"But even if your father were to return, what then?" he asked. "Will you follow in his footsteps? Will you be a criminal like him? Perhaps you already are?"

"My father was no criminal," Artemis said testily. "He was moving all our assets into legitimate enterprises. The Murmansk venture was completely aboveboard."

"You’re avoiding the question, Artemis," said Po.

But Artemis had had enough of this line of questioning. Time to play a little game.

"Why, Doctor?" said Artemis, shocked. "This is a sensitive area. For all you know, I could be suffering from depression."

"I suppose you could," said Po, sensing a breakthrough. "Is that the case?"

Artemis dropped his face into his hands. "It’s my mother, Doctor."

"Your mother?" prompted Po, trying to keep the excitement from his voice. Artemis had caused half a dozen counselors to retire from Saint Bartleby’s already this year. Truth be told, Po was on the point of packing his own bags. But now . . .

"My mother, she . . ."

Po leaned forward on his fake Victorian chair. "Your mother, yes?"

"She forces me to endure this ridiculous therapy, when the so-called counselors are little better than misguided do-gooders with degrees."

Po sighed. "Very well, Artemis. Have it your way, but you are never going to find peace if you continue to run away from your problems."

Artemis was spared further analysis by the vibration of his cell phone. He had a coded secure line. Only one person had the number. The boy retrieved it from his pocket, flipping open the tiny communicator. "Yes?"

Butler’s voice came through the speaker. "Artemis. It’s me."

"Obviously. I’m in the middle of something here."

"We’ve had a message."

"Yes. From where?"

"I don’t know exactly. But it concerns the Fowl Star."

A jolt raced up Artemis’s spine.

"Where are you?"

"The main gate."

"Good man. I’m on my way."

Dr. Po whipped off his glasses. "This session is not over, young man. We made some progress today, even if you won’t admit it. Leave now, and I will be forced to inform the dean."

The warning was lost on Artemis. He was already somewhere else. A familiar electric buzz was crackling over his skin. This was the beginning of something. He could feel it.



PROLOGUE





Murmansk, Northern Russia; Two Years Before

The two Russians huddled around a flaming barrel in a futile attempt to ward off the Arctic chill. The Gulf of Kola was not a place you wanted to be after September, especially not Murmansk. In Murmansk, even the polar bears wore scarves. Nowhere was colder, except perhaps Norilsk.

The men were Mafiya enforcers, and were more used to spending their evenings inside stolen BMWs. The large gangster, Mikhael Vassikin, checked the fake Rolex beneath the sleeve of his fur coat.

"This thing could freeze up," he said, checking the diving bezel. "What am I going to do with it then?"

"Stop your complaining," said the one called Kamar. "It’s your fault we’re stuck outside in the first place."

Vassikin paused. "Pardon me?"

"Our orders were simple: Sink the Fowl Star. All you had to do was blow the cargo bay. It was a big enough ship, heaven knows. Blow the cargo bay, and down she goes. But no, the great Vassikin hits the stern. Not even a backup rocket to finish the job. So now we have to search for survivors."

"She sank, didn’t she?"

Kamar shrugged. "So what? She sank slowly, plenty of time for the passengers to grab on to something. Vassikin the famous sharpshooter. My grandmother could shoot better."

Lyubkhin, the Mafiya’s man on the docks, approached before the discussion could develop into an all-out brawl.

"How are things?" asked the bearlike Yakut.

Vassikin spat over the quay wall. "How do you think? Did you find anything?"

"Dead fish and broken crates," said the Yakut, offering both enforcers a steaming mug. "Nothing alive. It’s been over eight hours now. I have good men searching all the way down to Green Cape."

Kamar drank deeply, then spat in disgust.

"What is this stuff? Pitch?"

Lyubkhin laughed. "Hot cola. From the Fowl Star. It’s coming ashore by the crate load. Tonight we are truly on the bay of Kola."

"Be warned," said Vassikin, spilling the liquid into the snow. "This weather is souring my temper. So no more terrible jokes. It’s enough that I have to listen to Kamar."

"Not for much longer," muttered his partner. "One more sweep, and we call off the search. Nothing could survive these waters for eight hours."

Vassikin held out his empty cup. "Don’t you have something stronger? I know you always keep a flask hidden somewhere."

Lyubkhin reached for his hip pocket, but stopped when the walkie-talkie on his belt began to emit static. Three short bursts.

"Three squawks. That’s the signal."

"The signal for what?"

Lyubkhin hurried down the docks, shouting back over his shoulder.

"Three squawks on the radio. It means that the K9 unit has found someone."

The survivor was not Russian, that much was obvious from his clothes. Everything from the Gore-Tex boots to the leather overcoat had obviously been purchased in western Europe, perhaps even America. They were tailored to fit, and made from the highest-quality material.

Though the man’s clothes were relatively intact, his body had not fared so well. His bare hands were mottled with frostbite. One leg had been snapped below the knee, and his face was a horrific mask of burns.

The search crew had carried him from a ravine three klicks south of the harbor on a makeshift tarpaulin stretcher. The men crowded around their prize, stamping their feet against the cold that invaded their boots. Vassikin elbowed his way through the gathering, kneeling for a closer look.

"He’ll lose the leg for sure," he noted. "A couple of fingers, too. The face doesn’t look too good either."

"Thank you, Dr. Mikhael," commented Kamar dryly. "Any ID?"

Vassikin conducted a quick thief’s search. Wallet and watch.

"Nothing. That’s odd. You’d think a rich man like this would have some personal effects, wouldn’t you?"

Kamar nodded. "Yes I would."

He turned to the circle of men. "Ten seconds, then there’ll be trouble. Keep the currency, I need everything else."

The sailors considered it. The man was not big. But he was Mafiya, the Russian organized-crime syndicate.

A leather wallet sailed over the crowd, skidding into a dip in the tarpaulin. Moments later it was joined by a Cartier chronograph. Gold with diamond studding. Worth five years of an average Russian’s wages.

"Wise decision," said Kamar scooping up the treasure trove.

"Well?" asked Vassikin. "Do we keep him?"

Kamar pulled a platinum Visa card from the kidskin wallet, checking the name.

"Oh, we keep him," he replied, activating his cell phone. "We keep him, and put some blankets over him.

The way our luck’s going, he’ll catch pneumonia. And believe me, we don’t want anything to happen to this man. He’s our ticket to the big time."

Kamar was getting excited. This was completely out of character for him. Vassikin clambered to his feet. "Who are you calling? Who is this guy?" Kamar picked a number from his speed-dial menu. "I’m calling Britva. Who do you think I’m calling?" Vassikin paled. Even calling the boss was dangerous.

Britva was well known for shooting the bearers of bad news. "It’s good news, right? You’re calling with good news?" Kamar flipped the Visa at his partner. "Read that." Vassikin studied the card for several moments. "I don’t read Angliiskii. What does it say? What’s the name?" Kamar told him. A slow smile spread across Mikhael’s face. "Make the call," he said.





CHAPTER 1




FAMILY TIES




The loss of her husband had had a profound effect on Angeline Fowl. She had retreated to her room, refusing to go outside. She had taken refuge in her mind, preferring dreams of the past to real life. It is doubtful that she would have recovered had not her son, Artemis the Second, done a deal with the elf Holly Short: his mother’s sanity in return for half the ransom gold he had stolen from the fairy police. His mother safely restored, Artemis Junior focused his efforts on locating his father, investing large chunks of the family fortune in Russian excursions, local intelligence, and Internet search companies.

Young Artemis had received a double share of Fowl guile. But with the recovery of his mother, a moral and beautiful lady, it became increasingly difficult for him to realize his ingenious schemes, schemes that were ever more necessary to fund the search for his father.

Angeline, distraught over her son’s obsession and afraid of the effects of the past year on Artemis’s mind, signed her thirteen-year-old up for treatment with the school counselor.

You have to feel sorry for him. The counselor, that is ...

Saint Bartleby’s School for Young Gentlemen, County Wicklow, Ireland; Present Day

Dr. Po leaned back in his padded armchair, eyes flicking across the page in front of him.

"Now, Master Fowl, let’s talk, shall we?"

Artemis sighed deeply, smoothing his dark hair back from a wide, pale brow. When would people learn that a mind such as his could not be dissected? He himself had read more psychology textbooks than the counselor. He had even contributed an article to The Psychologists’Journal, under the pseudonym Dr. F. Roy Dean Schlippe.

"Certainly, Doctor. Let’s talk about your chair. Victorian?"

Po rubbed the leather arm fondly. "Yes, quite correct. Something of a family heirloom. My grandfather acquired it at auction in Sotheby’s. Apparently it once stood in the palace. The Queen’s favorite."

A taut smile stretched Artemis’s lips perhaps half an inch.

"Really, Doctor. They don’t generally allow fakes in the palace."

Po’s grip stretched the worn leather. "Fake? I assure you, Master Fowl, this is completely authentic."

Artemis leaned in for a closer examination. "It’s clever, I grant you. But look here."

Po’s gaze followed the youth’s finger.

"Those furniture tacks. See the crisscross pattern on the head? Machine tooled. Nineteen twenty at the earliest. Your grandfather was duped. But what matter? A chair is a chair. A possession of no importance, eh, Doctor?"

Po scribbled furiously, burying his dismay. "Yes, Artemis, very clever. Just as your file says. Playing your little games. Now shall we get back to you?"

Artemis Fowl the Second straightened the crease in his trousers. "There is a problem here, Doctor."

"Really? And what might that be?"

"The problem is that I know the textbook answers to any question you care to ask."

Dr. Po jotted in his pad for a full minute. "We do have a problem, Artemis. But that’s not it," he said eventually.

Artemis almost smiled. No doubt the doctor would treat him to another predictable theory. Which disorder would he have today? Multiple personality perhaps, or maybe he’d be a pathological liar?

"The problem is that you don’t respect anyone enough to treat them as an equal."

Artemis was thrown by the statement. This doctor was smarter than the rest.

"That’s ridiculous. I hold several people in the highest esteem."

Po did not glance up from his notebook.

"Really? Who, for example?"

Artemis thought for a moment. "Albert Einstein. His theories were usually correct. And Archimedes, the Greek mathematician."

"What about someone whom you actually know?"

Artemis thought hard. No one came to mind.

"What? No examples?"

Artemis shrugged. "You seem to have all the answers, Dr. Po, why don’t you tell me?"

Po opened a window on his laptop. "Extraordinary. Every time I read this—"

"My biography, I presume?"

"Yes, it explains a lot."

"Such as?" asked Artemis, interested in spite of himself.

Dr. Po printed off a page.

"Firstly, there’s your associate, Butler. A bodyguard, I understand. Hardly a suitable companion for an impressionable boy. Then there’s your mother. A wonderful woman in my opinion, but with absolutely no control over your behavior. Finally, there’s your father. According to this, he wasn’t much of a role model, even when he was alive."

The remark stung, but Artemis wasn’t about to let the doctor realize how much.

"Your file is mistaken, Doctor," he said. "My father is alive. Missing perhaps, but alive."

Po checked the sheet. "Really? I was under the impression that he has been missing for almost two years. Why, the courts have declared him legally dead."

Artemis’s voice was devoid of emotion, though his heart was pounding. "I don’t care what the courts say, or the Red Cross. He is alive, and I will find him."

Po scratched another note.

"But even if your father were to return, what then?" he asked. "Will you follow in his footsteps? Will you be a criminal like him? Perhaps you already are?"

"My father was no criminal," Artemis said testily. "He was moving all our assets into legitimate enterprises. The Murmansk venture was completely aboveboard."

"You’re avoiding the question, Artemis," said Po.

But Artemis had had enough of this line of questioning. Time to play a little game.

"Why, Doctor?" said Artemis, shocked. "This is a sensitive area. For all you know, I could be suffering from depression."

"I suppose you could," said Po, sensing a breakthrough. "Is that the case?"

Artemis dropped his face into his hands. "It’s my mother, Doctor."

"Your mother?" prompted Po, trying to keep the excitement from his voice. Artemis had caused half a dozen counselors to retire from Saint Bartleby’s already this year. Truth be told, Po was on the point of packing his own bags. But now ...

"My mother, she . . ."

Po leaned forward on his fake Victorian chair. "Your mother, yes?"

"She forces me to endure this ridiculous therapy, when the so-called counselors are little better than misguided do-gooders with degrees."

Po sighed. "Very well, Artemis. Have it your way, but you are never going to find peace if you continue to run away from your problems."

Artemis was spared further analysis by the vibration of his cell phone. He had a coded secure line. Only one person had the number. The boy retrieved it from his pocket, flipping open the tiny communicator. "Yes?"

Butler’s voice came through the speaker. "Artemis. It’s me."

"Obviously. I’m in the middle of something here."

"We’ve had a message."

"Yes. From where?"

"I don’t know exactly. But it concerns the Fowl Star."

A jolt raced up Artemis’s spine.

"Where are you?"

"The main gate."

"Good man. I’m on my way."

Dr. Po whipped off his glasses. "This session is not over, young man. We made some progress today, even if you won’t admit it. Leave now, and I will be forced to inform the dean."

The warning was lost on Artemis. He was already somewhere else. A familiar electric buzz was crackling over his skin. This was the beginning of something. He could feel it.





CHAPTER 2




CRUISIN’ FOR CHIX




The Lower Elements, Haven City, West Bank

The traditional image of a leprechaun is of a small, green-suited imp. Of course, this is the human image. Fairies have their own stereotypes. The People generally imagine officers of the Lower Elements Police Reconnaissance Squad to be truculent gnomes or bulked-up elves, recruited straight from their college crunchball squads.

Captain Holly Short fits neither of these descriptions. In fact, she would probably be the last person you would pick as a member of the LEPrecon squad. If you had to guess her occupation, the catlike stance and the sinewy muscle might suggest a gymnast, or perhaps a professional spelunker. But if you took a closer look past the pretty face, into the eyes, you would see determination so fiery it could light a candle at ten paces, and a streetwise intelligence that made her one of the Recon Squad’s most respected officers.

Of course, technically, Holly was no longer attached to Recon. Ever since the Artemis Fowl affair, when she had been captured and held for ransom, her position as Recon’s first female officer had been under review. The only reason she wasn’t at home watering her ferns right now was that Commander Root had threatened to turn in his own badge if Holly were suspended. Root knew, even if Internal Affairs wasn’t convinced, that the kidnapping had not been Holly’s fault, and only her quick thinking had prevented loss of life. But the Council members weren’t particularly interested in loss of human life, they were more concerned with loss of fairy gold. And according to them, Holly had cost them quite a chunk from the Recon ransom fund. Holly was quite prepared to fly above ground and wring Artemis Fowl’s neck until he returned the gold, but that wasn’t the way it worked. The Book, the fairy bible, stated that once a human managed to separate fairies from their gold, then that gold was his to keep.

So instead of confiscating her badge, Internal Affairs had insisted Holly handle grunt work somewhere she couldn’t do any harm. Stakeout was the obvious choice. So, Holly was farmed out to Customs and Excise, stuck in a cham pod, and suckered to the rock face overlooking a pressure-elevator chute. Dead-end duty.

Smuggling was a serious concern for the Lower Elements Police. It wasn’t the contraband itself, which was generally harmless junk: designer sunglasses, DVDs, cappuccino machines, and such. It was the method of acquiring these items.

The B’wa Kell goblin triad had cornered the smuggling market, and was becoming increasingly brazen in its aboveground excursions. It was even rumored that the goblins had constructed their own cargo shuttle to make their expeditions more economically viable.

The problem was that goblins were dim-witted creatures. All it would take would be for one of them to forget to shield, and goblin photos would be bouncing from satellites to news stations around the world. Then the Lower Elements, the last Mud People–free zone on the planet, would be discovered. When that happened, human nature being what it was, pollution, strip mining, and exploitation were sure to follow.

This meant that whatever poor souls were in the department’s bad books got to spend months at a time on surveillance duty, which is why Holly was now anchored to the rock face outside a little-used chute’s entrance.

E37 was a pressure elevator that emerged in downtown Paris, France. The European capital was red-flagged as a high-risk area, so visas were rarely approved. LEP business only. No one had been in the chute for decades, but it still merited twenty-four/seven surveillance. Which meant six officers on eight-hour shifts.

Holly was saddled with Chix Verbil for a pod mate. Like most sprites, Chix believed himself God’s green-skinned gift to females, and spent more time trying to impress Holly than doing his job.

"Lookin’ good tonight, Captain," was Chix’s opening line that particular night. "You do something with your hair?"

Holly adjusted the screen focus, wondering what you could do with an auburn crew cut.

"Concentrate, Private. We could be up to our necks in a firefight at any second."

"I doubt it, Captain. This place is quiet as the grave. I love assignments like this. Nice ’n’ easy. Just cruisin’."

Holly surveyed the scene below. Verbil was right. The once thriving suburb had become a ghost town with the chute’s closure to the public. Only the occasional foraging troll stumbled past their pods. When trolls began staking out territory in an area, you knew it was deserted.

"It’s jus’ you an’ me, Cap’. And the night’s still young."

"Stow it, Verbil. Keep your mind on the job. Or isn’t private a low enough rank for you?"

"Yes, Holly. Sorry, I mean, yes, sir."

Sprites. They were all the same. Give a fairy a pair of wings and he thought he was irresistible.

Holly chewed her lip. They’d wasted enough taxpayers’ gold on this stakeout. The brass should just call it a day, but they wouldn’t. Surveillance duty was ideal for keeping embarrassing officers out of the public eye.

In spite of this, Holly was determined to do the job to the best of her ability. The Internal Affairs tribunal wasn’t going to have any extra ammunition to throw at her if she could help it.

Holly called up their daily pod checklist on the plasma screen. The gauges for the pneumatic clamps were in the green. Plenty of gas to keep their pod hanging there for four long boring weeks.

Next on the list was thermal imaging.

"Chix, I want you to do a flyby. We’ll run a thermal."

Verbil grinned. Sprites loved to fly.

"Roger, Captain," he said, strapping a thermoscan bar to his chest.

Holly opened a hole in the pod, and Verbil swooped out, climbing quickly to the shadows. The bar on his chest bathed the area below with heat-sensitive rays. Holly punched up the thermoscan program on her computer. The view screen swam with fuzzy images in various shades of gray. Any living creature would show up even behind a layer of solid rock. But there was nothing, just a few swear toads and the tail end of a troll shambling off the screen.

Verbil’s voice crackled over the speaker.

"Hey, Captain. Should I take ’er in for a closer look?"

That was the trouble with portable scanners. The further away you were, the weaker the rays became.

"Okay, Chix. One more sweep. Be careful."

"Don’t worry, Holly. The Chix man will keep himself in one piece for you."

Holly drew a breath to make a threatening reply, but the retort died in her throat. On the screen. Something was moving.

"Chix. You getting this?"

"Affirmative, Cap. I’m getting it, but I dunno what I’m getting."

Holly enhanced a section of the screen. Two beings were moving around on the second level. The beings were gray.

"Chix. Hold your position. Continue scanning."

Gray? How could gray things be moving? Gray was dead. No heat, cold as the grave. Nevertheless . . .

"On your guard, Private Verbil. We have possible hostiles."

Holly opened a channel to Police Plaza. Foaly, the LEP’s technical wizard, would undoubtedly have their video feed running in the Operations booth.

"Foaly. You watching?"

"Yep, Holly," answered the centaur. "Just bringing you up on the main screen."

"What do you make of these shapes? Moving gray? I’ve never seen anything like it."

"Me neither." There followed a brief silence, punctuated by the clicking of a keyboard. "Two possible explanations. One, equipment malfunction. These could be phantom images from another system. Like interference on a radio."

"The other explanation?"

"It’s so ludicrous that I hardly like to mention it."

"Yeah, well do me a favor, Foaly, mention it."

"Well, ridiculous as it sounds, someone may have found a way to beat my system."

Holly paled. If Foaly was even admitting the possibility, then it was almost definitely true. She cut the centaur off, switching her attention back to Private Verbil. "Chix! Get out of there. Pull up! Pull up!"

The sprite was far too busy trying to impress his pretty captain to realize the seriousness of his situation. "Relax, Holly. I’m a sprite. Nobody can hit a sprite."

That was when a projectile erupted through a chute window, blowing a fist-sized hole in Verbil’s wing.

Holly tucked a Neutrino 2000 into its holster, issuing commands through her helmet’s com-set.

"Code 14, repeat code 14. Fairy down. Fairy down. We are under fire. E37. Send warlock medics and backup."

Holly dropped through the hatch, rappelling to the tunnel floor. She ducked behind a statue of Frond, the first elfin king. Chix was lying on a mound of rubble across the avenue. It didn’t look good. The side of his helmet had been bashed in by the jagged remains of a low wall, rendering his com-set completely useless.

She needed to reach him soon, or he was a goner. Sprites only had limited healing powers. They could magic away a wart, but gaping wounds were beyond them.

"I’m patching you through to the commander," said Foaly’s voice in her ear. "Stand by."

Commander Root’s gravelly tones barked across the airwaves. He did not sound in the best of moods. No surprises there.

"Captain Short. I want you to hold your position until backup gets there."

"Negative, Commander. Chix is hit. I have to reach him."

"Holly. Captain Kelp is minutes away. Hold your position. Repeat. Hold your position."

Behind the helmet’s visor, Holly gritted her teeth in frustration. She was one step from being booted out of the LEP, and now this. To rescue Chix, she would have to disobey a direct order.

Root sensed her indecision. "Holly, listen to me. Whatever they’re shooting at you punched straight through Verbil’s wing. Your LEP vest is no good. So sit tight and wait for Captain Kelp."

Captain Kelp. Possibly the LEP’s most gung-ho officer, famous for choosing the name Trouble at his graduation ceremony. Still, there was no officer Holly would prefer to have at her back going through a door.

"Sorry, sir, I can’t wait. Chix took a hit in the wing. You know what that means."

Shooting a sprite in the wing was not like shooting a bird. Wings were a sprite’s largest organ and contained seven major arteries. A hole like that would have ruptured at least three.

Commander Root sighed. Over the speakers it sounded like a rush of static.

"Okay, Holly. But stay low. I don’t want to lose any of my people today."

Holly drew her Neutrino 2000 from its holster, flicking the setting up to three. She wasn’t taking any chances with the snipers. Presuming they were goblins from the B’wa Kell triad, on a three setting, the first shot would knock them unconscious for eight hours at the very least.

She gathered her legs beneath her, and rocketed out from behind the statue. Immediately a hail of gunfire blew chunks from the structure.

Holly raced toward her fallen comrade, projectiles buzzing around her head like supersonic bees. Generally, in a situation of this kind, the last thing you do would be to move the victim, but with gunfire raining down on them, there was no choice. Holly grabbed the private by his epaulettes, hauling him behind a rusted-out delivery shuttle.

Chix had been out there a long time. He was grinning feebly.

"You came for me, Cap’. I knew you would."

Holly tried to keep the worry from her voice.

"Of course I came, Chix. Never leave a man behind."

"I knew you couldn’t resist me," he breathed. "I knew it."

Then he closed his eyes. There was a lot of damage done here. Maybe too much. Holly concentrated on the wound. Heal, she thought, and the magic welled up inside her like a million pins and needles. It spread through her arms and ran down to her fingers. She placed her hands on Verbil’s wound. Blue sparks tingled from her fingers into the hole. The sparks played around the wound, repairing the scorched issue and replicating spilt blood. The sprite’s breathing calmed, and a healthy green tinge started to return to his cheeks.

Holly sighed. Chix would be okay. He probably wouldn’t fly any more missions on that wing, but he would live. Holly lay the unconscious sprite on his side, careful not to put pressure on the injured wing. Now for the mysterious gray shapes. Holly upped the setting on her weapon to four and ran without hesitation toward the chute entrance.

On your very first day in the LEP Academy, a big, hairy gnome with a chest the size of a bull troll’s pins each cadet to a wall and warns them never to run into an unsecured building during a firefight. He says this in a most insistent fashion. He repeats it every day, until the maxim is etched on every cadet’s brain. Nevertheless, this was exactly what Captain Holly Short of LEPrecon proceeded to do.

She blasted the terminal’s double doors, diving through to the shelter of a check-in desk. Less than four hundred years ago, this building had been a hive of activity, with tourists lining up for aboveground visas. Paris had once been a very popular tourist destination. But, inevitably it seemed, humans had claimed the European capital for themselves. The only place fairies felt safe was in Disneyland Paris, where no one looked twice at diminutive creatures, even if they were green.

Holly activated a motion-sensor filter in her helmet and scanned the building through the desk’s quartz security panel. If anything moved, the helmet’s computer would automatically flag it with an orange corona. She looked up just in time to see two figures loping along a viewing gallery toward the shuttle bay. They were goblins, all right, reverting to all fours for extra speed, trailing a hover trolley behind them. They were wearing some kind of reflective foil suits, complete with headgear, obviously to fool the thermal sensors. Very clever. Too clever for goblins.

Holly ran parallel to the goblins, one floor down. All around her, ancient advertisements sagged in their brackets. TWO-WEEK SOLSTICE TOUR. TWENTY OUNCES OF GOLD. CHILDREN UNDER TEN TRAVEL FREE.

She vaulted the turnstile gate, racing past the security zone and duty-free booths. The goblins were descending now, boots and gloves flapping on a frozen escalator. One lost his headgear in his haste. He was big for a goblin, over three feet. His lidless eyes rolled in panic, and his forked tongue flicked upward to moisten his pupils.

Captain Short squeezed off a few bursts on the run. One clipped the backside of the nearest goblin. Holly groaned. Nowhere near a nerve center. But it didn’t have to be. There was a disadvantage to those foil suits. They conducted neutrino charges. The charge spread through the suit’s material like fiery ripples across a pond. The goblin jumped a good six feet straight up, then tumbled unconscious to the foot of the escalator. The hover trolley spun out of control, crashing into a luggage carousel. Hundreds of small cylindrical objects spilled from a shattered crate.

Goblin number two fired a dozen rounds Holly’s way. He missed, partly because his arms were jittery with nerves. But also because firing from the hip only works in the movies. Holly tried to take a screen shot of his weapon with her helmet camera for the computer to run a match on, but there was too much vibration.

The chase continued down the conduits and into the departure area itself. Holly was surprised to hear the hum of docking computers. There wasn’t supposed to be any power here. LEP engineering would have dismantled the generators. Why would power be needed here?

She already knew the answer. Power would be needed to operate the shuttle monorail and mission control. Her suspicions were confirmed as she entered the hangar. The goblins had built a shuttle!

It was unbelievable. Goblins had barely enough electricity in their brains to power a ten-watt bulb. How could they possibly build a shuttle? Yet there it was, sitting in the dock like a used-craft seller’s worst nightmare. There wasn’t a bit of it less than a decade old, and the hull was a patchwork of weld spots and rivets.

Holly swallowed her amazement, concentrating on the pursuit. The goblin had paused to grab a set of wings from the cargo hold. She could have taken a shot then, but it was too risky. She wouldn’t be surprised if the shuttle’s nuclear battery was protected by nothing more than a single layer of lead.

The goblin took advantage of his reprieve to skip down the access tunnel. The monorail ran the length of the scorched rock to the massive chute. The chutes were natural vents that riddled the earth’s mantle and crust. Magma streams from the planet’s molten core blasted toward the surface at irregular intervals. If it wasn’t for these pressure releases, the earth would have shaken itself to fragments aeons since. The LEP had harnessed this natural power for express surface shots. Recon officers rode the flares in titanium eggs in times of emergency. For a more leisurely trip, shuttles ascended to the various terminals around the world.

Holly slowed her pace. There was nowhere for the goblin to go. Not unless he was going to fly into the chute itself, and nobody was that crazy. Anything that got caught up in a magma flare got fried right down to the subatomic level.

The chute’s entrance loomed ahead. Massive and ringed by charred rock.

Holly switched on the helmet’s microphone.

"That’s far enough," she shouted over the howl of core wind. "Give it up. You’re not going into the chute without science."

Science was LEP-speak for technical information. In this case, science would be flare-prediction times. Accurate to within a tenth of a second. Generally.

The goblin raised a strange rifle, this time taking careful aim. The firing pin dropped, but whatever this weapon was firing, there wasn’t any left.

"That’s the problem with nonnuclear weapons, you run out of charge," quipped Holly, fulfilling the age-old tradition of firefight banter, even though her knees were threatening to fold.

In response, the goblin heaved the rifle in Holly’s direction. It was a terrible throw, landing fifteen feet short. But it served its purpose as a distraction. The B’wa Kell triad member used the moment to fire up his wings. They were old models: rotary motor and a broken muffler. The roar of the engine filled the tunnel.

There was another roar, behind the wings. A roar that Holly knew well from a thousand logged flight hours in the chutes. There was a flare coming.

Holly’s mind raced. If the goblins had somehow managed to hook up the terminal to a power source, then all the safety features would have been activated. Including . . .

Captain Short whirled, but the blast doors were already closing. The fireproof barriers were automatically triggered by a thermo sensor in the chute. When a flare passed by below, six-foot-thick steel doors shut the access tunnel off from the rest of the terminal. They were trapped in here, with a column of magma on the way. Not that the magma would kill them, there wasn’t much overspill from the flares. The superheated air would bake them drier than autumn leaves.

The goblin was standing on the tunnel’s edge, oblivious to the impending eruption. Holly realized that it wasn’t a question of the fugitive being crazy enough to fly into the chute. He was just plain stupid.

With a jaunty wave the goblin hopped into the chute, rising rapidly from view. Not rapidly enough. A twenty-foot-thick jet of roiling lava pounced on him like a waiting snake, consuming him completely.

Holly did not waste time grieving. She had problems of her own. LEP jumpsuits had thermal coils to disperse excess heat, but it wouldn’t be enough. In seconds a wall of dry heat would roll in here, and raise the temperature enough to crack the walls.

Holly glanced upward. A reinforced line of ancient coolant tanks were still bolted to the tunnel roof. She slid her blaster to maximum power and began sinking charges into the bellies of the tanks. This was no time for subtlety.

The tanks buckled and split, belching out rancid air and coolant traces. Useless. They must have bled out over the centuries, and the goblins had never bothered replacing them. But there was one. A black oblong, out of place among the standard green LEP models. Holly positioned herself directly underneath and fired.

Three thousand gallons of coolant-enhanced water crashed onto her head, at the very moment a heat wave came billowing in from the chute. It was a curious sensation to be frozen and burned almost simultaneously. Holly felt blisters pop on her shoulders only to be flattened by water pressure. Captain Short was driven to her knees, lungs starving for air. But she couldn’t take a breath, not now, and she couldn’t raise a hand to switch on her helmet tank.

After an eternity the roaring stopped, and Holly opened her eyes to a tunnel full of steam. She activated the de-mister in her visor and got up off her knees. Water slid in sheets from her nonfriction suit. She released her helmet seals, taking deep breaths of tunnel air. Still warm, but breathable.

Behind her the blast doors slid open, and Captain Trouble Kelp appeared in the gap along with an LEP Rapid Response team.

"Nice maneuver, Captain."

Holly didn’t answer, too absorbed by the weapon abandoned by the recently vaporized goblin. This was the prize pig of rifles, almost two feet long, with a starlite scope clipped above the barrel.

Holly’s first thought had been that somehow the B’wa Kell were manufacturing their own weapons. But now she realized that the truth was far more dangerous. Captain Short pried the rifle from the half-melted rock. She recognized it from her History of Law Enforcement in-service. An old softnose laser. Softnoses had been outlawed long ago. But that wasn’t the worst of it. Instead of a fairy power source, the gun was powered by a human AA alkaline battery.

"Trouble," she called. "Have a look at this."

"D’Arvit," breathed Kelp, reaching immediately for the radio controls on his helmet.

"Get me a priority channel to Commander Root. We have Class A contraband. Yes, Class A. I need a full team of techies. Get Foaly, too. I want this entire quadrant shut down. . . ."

Trouble continued spouting orders but they faded to a distant buzz in Holly’s ears. The B’wa Kell were trading with the Mud Men. Humans and goblins working together to reactivate outlawed weapons. And if the weapons were here, how long could it be before the Mud Men followed?

Help arrived just after the nick of time. In thirty minutes there were so many halogen spotlights buzzing around E37 that it looked like a GolemWorld movie premiere.

Foaly was down on his knees examining the unconscious goblin by the escalator. Foaly was the main reason that humans hadn’t yet discovered the People’s underground lairs. He was a technical genius who had pioneered every major development from flare prediction to mind-wiping technology. Every discovery made him less respectful and more annoying. But rumor had it that he had a soft spot for a certain female Recon officer. Actually, the only female Recon officer.

"Good job, Holly," he said rubbing the goblin’s reflective suit. "You just had a firefight with a kabob."

"That’s it, Foaly, draw attention away from the fact that the B’wa Kell fooled your sensors."

Foaly tried on one of the helmets. "Not the B’wa Kell. No way. Too dumb. Goblins just don’t have the cranial capacity. These are human manufacture."

Holly snorted. "And how do you know that? Recognize the stitching?"

"Nope," replied Foaly, tossing the helmet to Holly.

Holly read the label. "Made in Germany."

"I’d guess that this is a fire suit. The material keeps the heat out as well as in. This is serious, Holly. We’re not talking a couple of designer shirts and a case of chocolate bars here. Some human is doing some serious smuggling with the B’wa Kell."

Foaly stepped out of the way to allow the technical crew access to their prisoner. The techies would tag the unconscious goblin with a subcutaneous sleeper. The sleeper contained microcapsules of a sedative agent and a tiny detonator. Once tagged, a criminal could be knocked out by computer if the LEP realized he was involved in an illegal situation.

"You know who’s probably behind this, don’t you?" said Holly.

Foaly rolled his eyes. "Oh let me guess. Captain Short’s archenemy, Master Artemis Fowl."

"Well, who else could it be?"

"Take your pick. The People have been in contact with thousands of Mud Men over the years."

"Is that so?" retorted Holly. "And how many that haven’t been mind-wiped?"

Foaly pretended to think about it, adjusting the foil hat jammed on his head to deflect any brain-probing signals that could be focused his way.

"Three," he muttered eventually.

"Pardon?"

"Three, okay."

"Exactly. Fowl and his pet gorillas. Artemis is behind this. Mark my words."

"You’d just love that to be the case now, wouldn’t you? You’d finally get the chance to get your own back. You do remember what happened the last time the LEP went up against Artemis Fowl?"

"I remember. But that was last time."

Foaly smirked. "I would remind you that he’ll be thirteen, now."

Holly’s hand dropped to her buzz baton.

"I don’t care how old he is. One zap with this, and he’ll be sleeping like a baby."

Foaly nodded toward the entrance. "I’d save my charges if I were you. You’re going to need them."

Holly followed his gaze. Commander Julius Root was sweeping across the secured zone. The more he saw, the redder his face grew, hence the nickname Beetroot.

"Commander," began Holly. "You need to see this."

Root’s gaze silenced her. "What were you thinking?"

"Pardon me, sir?"

"Don’t give me that. I was in Ops for the whole thing. I was watching the video feed from your helmet."

"Oh."

"Oh hardly covers it, Captain!" Root’s buzz-cut gray hair was quivering with emotion. "This was supposed to be a surveillance mission. There were several backup squads sitting on their well-trained behinds only waiting for you to call. But no, Captain Short decides to take on the B’wa Kell on her own."

"I had a man down, sir. There was no choice."

"What was Verbil doing out there in the first place?"

For the first time, Holly’s gaze dropped. "I sent him out to do a thermal, sir. Just following regulations."

Root nodded. "I just talked to the paramedic warlock. Verbil will be okay, but his flying days are over. There’ll be a tribunal of course."

"Yes, sir. Understood."

"A formality, I’m sure, but you know the Council."

Holly knew the Council all too well. She would be the first LEP officer in history to be the subject of two simultaneous investigations.

"So what’s this I hear about a Class A?"

All contraband was classed. Class A was code for dangerous human technology. Power sources for instance.

"This way, sir."

Holly lead them to the rear of the maintenance area, to the shuttle bay itself.

A translucent restricted-access Perspex dome had been erected in the shuttle bay. Holly pressed through the frosted entrance flaps.

"You see? This is serious."

Root studied the evidence. In the shuttle’s cargo bay were crates of AA batteries. Holly selected a pack.

"Pencil batteries," she said. "A common human power source. Crude, inefficient, and an environmental disaster. Twelve crates of them right here. Who knows how many are in the tunnels already?"

Root was unimpressed. "Forgive me for not quaking in my boots. So a few goblins get to play human video games. So what?"

Foaly had spotted the goblin’s softnose laser. "Oh no!" he said, checking the weapon.

"Exactly," agreed Holly.

The commander did not appreciate being left out of the conversation. "Oh no!" he mimicked them. "I hope you’re just being melodramatic."

"No, chief," replied the centaur, somber for once. "This is deadly serious. The B’wa Kell are using human batteries to power the old softnose lasers. They’d only get about six shots per battery. But you give every goblin a pocketful of power cells, and that’s a lot of shots."

"Softnose lasers? They were outlawed decades ago. Weren’t they all recycled?"

Foaly nodded. "Supposedly. My division supervised the meltdowns. Not that we considered it priority, they were originally powered by a single solar cell, with a life span of less than a decade. Obviously, somebody managed to sneak a few out of the recycling lockup."

"Quite a few by the looks of all these batteries. That’s the last thing I need, goblins with softnoses."

The softnose technique involved placing an inhibitor on a blaster, which allowed a laser to travel at slower speeds, actually penetrating the target. Initially developed for mining purposes, they were quickly adapted by some greedy weapons manufacturer.

The softnoses were just as quickly outlawed, for the obvious reason that these weapons were designed to kill, and not to incapacitate. Now and then one found its way into the hands of a gang member. But this did not look like an isolated case. This looked like somebody was planning something big.

"You know what the worrisome thing about this is?" said Foaly.

"No," said Root with deceptive calmness. "Do tell me what the worrisome thing is."

Foaly turned the gun around. "The way this weapon has been adapted to take a human battery. Very clever. There’s no way a goblin figured this out on his own."

"But why adapt the softnoses?" asked the commander. "Why not just use the old solar cells?"

"Those solar cells are very rare. They’re worth their weight in gold. Antiques dealers use them to power all sorts of old gadgets. And it would be impossible to build a power-cell factory of any kind without my sensors picking up emissions. Much simpler just to steal them from the humans."

Root lit one of his trademark fungal cigars. "Tell me that’s it. Tell me there’s nothing else."

Holly’s gaze flickered to the rear of the hangar. Root caught the glance and pressed past the crates to the makeshift shuttle in the docking bay. The commander climbed into the craft.

"And what the hell is this, Foaly?"

The centaur ran a hand along the ship’s hull.

"It’s amazing. Unbelievable. They put a shuttle together from junk. I’m surprised this thing gets off the ground."

The commander bit down hard on his fungus cigar. "When you’re finished admiring the goblins, Foaly, maybe you can explain how the B’wa Kell got a hold of this stuff. I thought all outdated shuttle technology was supposed to be destroyed."

"That’s what I thought. I retired some of this stuff myself. This starboard booster used to be in E1, until Captain Short blew it out last year. I remember signing the destruct order."

Root spared a second to shoot Holly a withering glance.

"So now we have shuttle parts escaping the recycling smelters as well as softnose lasers. Find out how this shuttle got here. Take it apart, piece by piece. I want every strand of wire lasered for prints and DNA. Feed all the serial numbers into the mainframe, see if there are any common denominators."

Foaly nodded. "Good idea. I’ll get someone on it."

"No, Foaly, you get on it. This is priority. So give your conspiracy theories a rest for a few days, and find me the inside fairy who’s selling this junk."

"But, Julius," protested Foaly. "That’s grunt work."

Root took a step closer. "One, don’t call me Julius, civilian. And two, I’d say it was more like donkey work."

Foaly noticed the vein pulsing in the commander’s temple.

"Point taken," he said, removing a handheld computer from his belt. "I’ll get right on it."

"You do that. Now, Captain Short, what is our B’wa Kell prisoner saying?"

Holly shrugged. "Nothing much, still unconscious. He’ll be coughing soot for a month as soon he wakes up. Anyway, you know how the B’wa Kell works, the soldiers aren’t told anything. This guy is just a grunt. It’s a pity the Book forbids using the mesmer on other fairies."

"Hmm," said Root, his face glowing redder than a baboon’s behind. "An even greater pity the Atlantis Convention outlawed truth drugs. Otherwise we could pump this convict full of serum until he sang like a drunken Mud Man."

The commander took several deep breaths to calm down before his heart popped.

"Right now, we need to find out where these batteries came from, and if there are any more in the Lower Elements."

Holly took a breath. "I have a theory, sir."

"Don’t tell me," groaned Root. "Artemis Fowl, right?"

"Who else could it be? I knew he’d be back. I knew it."

"You know the rules, Holly. He beat us last year. Game over. That’s what the Book says."

"Yes, sir, but that was a different game. New game, new rules. If Fowl is supplying power cells to the B’wa Kell, the least we can do is check it out."

Root considered it. If Fowl was behind this, things could get very complicated very fast.

"I don’t like the idea of interrogating Fowl on his turf. But we can’t bring him down here. The pressure underground would kill him."

Holly disagreed. "Not if we keep him in a secure environment. The city is equalized. So are the shuttles."

"Okay, go," the commander said at last. "Bring him in for a little chat. Bring the big one, too."

"Butler?"

"Yes, Butler." Root paused. "But remember, we’re going to run a few scans, Holly, that’s it. I don’t want you using this as an opportunity to settle a score."

"No, sir. Strictly business."

"Do I have your word on that?"

"Yes, sir. I guarantee it."

Root ground the cigar butt beneath his heel.

"I don’t want anyone else getting hurt today, not even Artemis Fowl."

"Understood."

"Well," added the commander. "Not unless it’s absolutely necessary."





CHAPTER 3




GOING UNDERGROUND




Saint Bartleby’s School for Young Gentlemen

Butler had been in Artemis Fowl’s service since the moment of the boy’s birth. He had spent the first night of his charge’s life standing guard on the Sisters of Mercy maternity ward. For over a decade, Butler had been teacher, mentor, and protector to the young heir. The pair had never been separated for more than a week, until now. It shouldn’t bother him, he knew that. A bodyguard should never become emotionally attached to his charge: it affects his judgment. But in his private moments, Butler couldn’t help thinking of the Fowl heir as the younger brother he had never had.

Butler parked the Bentley Arnage Red Label on the College Avenue. If anything, the Eurasian manservant had bulked up since midterm. With Artemis in boarding school, he was spending a lot more time in the gym. Truth be told, Butler was bored pumping iron, but the college authorities absolutely refused to allow him a bunk in Artemis’s room. And when the gardener had discovered the bodyguard’s hideout just off the seventeenth green, they had banned him from the school grounds altogether.

Artemis slipped through the school’s gate, Dr. Po’s comments still in his thoughts.

"Problems, sir?" said Butler, noticing his employer’s sour expression.

Artemis ducked into the Bentley’s wine-colored leather interior, selecting a bottle of still water from the bar.

"Hardly, Butler. Just another quack spouting psychobabble."

Butler kept his voice level. "Should I have a word with him?"

"Never mind him now. What news of the Fowl Star?"

"We got an e-mail at the manor this morning. It’s an MPG."

Artemis scowled. He could not access MPG video files on his mobile phone.

Butler pulled a portable computer from the glove compartment.

"I thought you might be anxious to see the file, so I downloaded it onto this."

He passed the computer over his shoulder. Artemis activated the compact machine, folding out the flat color screen. At first he thought the battery was dead, then realized he was looking at a field of snow. White on white, with only the faintest shadows to indicate dips and drumlins.

Artemis felt the uneasiness rolling in his gut. Funny how such an innocent image could be so foreboding.

The camera panned upward, revealing a dull twilight sky. Then a black hunched object, in the distance. A rhythmic crunching issued through the compact speakers as the cameraman advanced through the snow. The object grew clearer. It was a man sitting on, no, tied to, a chair. The ice clinked in Artemis’s glass. His hands were shaking.

The man was dressed in the rags of a once fine suit. Scars branded the prisoner’s face like lightning bolts, and one leg appeared to be missing. It was difficult to tell. Artemis’s breath was jumpy now, like a marathon runner’s.

There was a sign around the man’s neck. Cardboard and twine. On the sign was scrawled in thick black letters: Zdravstvutye syn. The camera zoomed in on the message for several seconds, then went blank.

"Is that all?"

Butler nodded."Just the man, and the sign. That’s it."

"Zdravstvutye syn," muttered Artemis, his accent flawless. Since his father’s disappearance, he had been teaching himself the language.

"Should I translate for you?" asked Butler, also a Russian speaker. His accent, however, was not quite so sophisticated.

He had picked it up during a five-year stint with an espionage unit in the late eighties.

"No, I know what it means," replied his young employer. "Zdravstvutye syn: Hello, son."

Butler pulled the Bentley onto the divided highway. No one spoke for several minutes. Eventually Butler had to ask.

"Do you think it’s him, Artemis? Could that man be your father?"

Artemis rewound the MPG, freezing it on the mysterious man’s face. He touched the display, sending rainbow distortions across the screen.

"I think so, Butler. But the picture quality is too poor. I can’t be certain."

Butler understood the emotions battering his young charge. He, too, had lost someone aboard the Fowl Star. His uncle, the major, had been assigned to Artemis’s father on that fateful trip. Unfortunately, the major’s body had turned up in the Tchersky morgue.

Artemis regained his composure. "I must pursue this, Butler."

"You know what’s coming next, of course?"

"Yes. A ransom demand. This is merely the teaser, to get my attention. I need to cash in some of the People’s gold. Contact Lars in Zurich, immediately."

Butler accelerated into the fast lane.

"Master Artemis, I have had some experience in these matters."

Artemis did not interrupt. Butler’s career before his current charge’s birth had been varied, to say the least.

"The pattern with kidnappers is to eliminate all witnesses. Then they will generally try to eliminate each other, to avoid splitting the ransom."

"Your point being?"

"My point being that paying a ransom in no way guarantees your father’s safety. If indeed that man is your father. It is quite possible that the kidnappers will take your money and then kill all of us."

Artemis studied the camera screen. "You’re right, of course. I will have to devise a plan."

Butler swallowed. He remembered the last plan. It had almost gotten them all killed, and could have plunged the planet into an interspecies war. Butler was a man who didn’t scare easily, but the spark in Artemis Fowl’s eyes was enough to send a shiver crackling down his spine.

Chute Terminal E1, Tara, Ireland

Captain Holly Short had decided to work a double shift and proceed directly to the surface. She paused only for a nutri-bar and an energy shake before hopping on the first shuttle to the terminal at Tara.

One of Tara’s officials was not making her journey any easier. The head of security was annoyed that Captain Short had not only put all chute traffic on hold to take a priority pod from E1, but then proceeded to commandeer an entire shuttle for the return journey.

"Why don’t you check your system again?" she said through gritted teeth. "I’m sure the authorization from Police Plaza has arrived by now."

The truculent gnome consulted his handheld computer. "No, ma’am. I ain’t got nuthin’."

"Look, Mister . . ."

"Commandant Terryl."

"Commandant Terryl. I’m on an important mission here. National security. I need you to keep the arrivals hall completely clear for the next couple of hours."

Terryl made a great show of almost collapsing. "The next coupla hours! Are you crazy, girly? I got three shuttles comin’ in from Atlantis. What’m I s’posed to tell ’em? Tour’s off ’cause of some LEP secret shenanigans? This is high season. I can’t just shut things down. No way, no how."

Holly shrugged. "Fine. You just let all your tourists catch sight of the two humans I’m bringing down here. There’ll be a riot. I guarantee it."

"Two humans?" said the head of security. "Inside the terminal? Are you nuts?"

Holly was running out of patience, and time.

"Do you see this?" she demanded, pointing to the insignia on her helmet. "I’m LEP. A captain. No rent-a-cop gnome is going to stand in the way of my orders."

Terryl drew himself up to his full height, which was a little more than two feet.

"Yeah, I heard of you. The crazy girly captain. Caused quite a stir up here last year, didn’t you. My tax ingots gonna be payin’ for that little screw-up for quite some time."

"Just ask Central, you bureaucratic idiot."

"Call me what you want, Missy. We have our rules here, and without confirmation from below, ain’t nothing I can do to change ’em. ’Specially not fer some gun-totin’ girly with an attitude problem."

"Well, get on the blower to Police Plaza then!"

Terryl sniffed. "The magma flares have just started actin’ up. It’s hard to get a line. Maybe I’ll try again after my rounds. Just you take yourself a seat in the departure lounge."

Holly’s hand strayed toward her buzz baton.

"You know what you’re doing, don’t you?"

"What?" croaked the gnome.

"You’re obstructing an LEP operation."

"I ain’t obstructin’ nuthin’—"

"And as such, it is in my power to remove said obstruction using any force that I deem necessary."

"Don’t you threaten me, Missy."

Holly drew the baton, twirling it expertly. "I’m not threatening you. I’m just informing you of police procedure. If you continue to obstruct me, I remove the obstruction, in this case you, and proceed to the next in command."

Terryl was unconvinced. "You wouldn’t dare."

Holly grinned. "I’m the crazy girly captain. Remember?"

The gnome considered it. It was unlikely the officer would buzz him, but then again, with female elves, who knew?

"Okay," he said, printing off a sheet on the computer. "This is a twenty-four-hour visa. But if you’re not back here in that time, I’ll have you taken into custody on your return. Then I’ll be the one making the threats."

Holly snatched the sheet. "Whatever. Now, remember make sure the arrival dock is clear when I get back."

Ireland, en route from Saint Bartleby’s to Fowl Manor

Artemis was bouncing ideas off Butler, a technique he often used when trying to come up with a plan. After all, if anybody was an expert on covert operations, it was his bodyguard.

"We can’t trace the MPG?"

"No, Artemis. I tried. They put a decay virus in with the e-mail, I only barely managed to get the film on disk before the original disintegrated."

"What about the MPG itself? Could we get a geographical fix from the stars?"

Butler smiled. Young Master Artemis was starting to think like a soldier.

"No luck. I sent a shot to a friend of mine in NASA. He didn’t even bother putting it into the computer—not enough definition."

Artemis was silent for a minute.

"How fast can we get to Russia?"

Butler drummed his fingers on the steering wheel. "It depends."

"Depends on what?"

"On how we go, legal or illegal."

"Which is quicker?"

Butler laughed, something you didn’t hear very often. "Illegal is usually faster. Either way is going to be pretty slow. We can’t go by air, that’s for sure. The Mafiya is going to have foot soldiers at every airstrip."

"Are we sure it’s the Mafiya?"

Butler glanced in the rearview mirror. "I’m afraid so. All kidnappings go through the Mafiya. Even if an ordinary criminal managed to abduct your father, he would have to hand him over."

Artemis nodded. "That’s what I thought. So we will have to travel by sea, and that will take a week at the very least. We could really use some help with transport. Something the Mafiya won’t expect. How’s our ID situation?"

"No problem. I thought we’d go native. Russians arouse less suspicion in Russia. I have passports and visas."

"Good. What is our cover?"

"What about Stefan Bashkir and his Uncle Constantin?"

"Perfect. The chess prodigy and his chaperone."

They had used this cover many times before on previous search missions. Once a checkpoint official, himself a chess grandmaster, had doubted their story, until Artemis beat him in six moves. Artemis’s technique had since become known as the Bashkir Maneuver.

"How soon can we leave?"

"Almost immediately. Mrs. Fowl and Juliet are in Nice this week. That gives us eight days. We can e-mail the school, make up some excuse."

"I daresay Saint Bartleby’s will be glad to be rid of me for a while."

"We could go straight to the airport from Fowl Manor, the Lear jet is stocked. At least we can fly as far as Scandinavia, and we can try to pick up a boat from there. I just have to pick up a few things at the manor first."

Artemis could imagine exactly the kind of things his manservant wished to pick up. Dangerous things. "Good. The sooner the better. We’ve got to find these people before they know we’re looking. We can monitor e-mail as we go."

Butler took the exit for Fowl Manor.

"You know, Artemis," he said, glancing in the mirror. "We’re going up against the Russian Mafiya. I’ve had dealings with these people before. They don’t negotiate. This could get bloody. If we take these gangsters on, people are going to get hurt. Most likely us."

Artemis nodded absently, watching his own reflection in the window. He needed a plan. Something audacious and brilliant. Something that had never been attempted before. Artemis was not unduly worried on that front. His brain had never let him down before.

Tara Shuttleport

The fairy shuttleport at Tara was an impressive operation. Thirty thousand cubic feet of terminal concealed beneath an overgrown hillock in the middle of the McGraney farm.

For centuries the McGraneys had respected the fairy fort’s boundaries, and for centuries they had enjoyed exceptional good luck. Illnesses mysteriously cleared up overnight, priceless art treasures popped up with incredible regularity, and mad cow disease seemed to avoid their herds altogether.

Having solved her visa problem, Holly finally made her way to the security door and slipped through the holographic camouflage. She had managed to secure a set of Koboi DoubleDex for the trip. The rig ran on a satellite-bounced solar battery, and employed a revolutionary wing design. There were two sets, or decks; one fixed, for gliding, and a smaller set for maneuverability. Holly had been dying to try the DoubleDex out, but only a few rigs had made their way across from Koboi Labs. Foaly was reluctant to let them out because he hadn’t designed them. Professional envy. Holly had taken advantage of his absence from the lab to swipe a set from the rack.

She soared fifty feet above the ground, allowing unfiltered surface air to fill her lungs. Though laden with pollutants, it was still sweeter than the recycled tunnel variety. For several minutes she enjoyed the experience, before turning her concentration to the mission at hand: how to abduct Artemis Fowl.

Not from his home, Fowl Manor, that was for certain. Legally, she put herself on very shaky ground by entering a dwelling without permission. Even though, technically, Fowl had invited her in by kidnapping her last year. Not many lawyers would take your case on the basis of that defense. Anyway the manor was a virtual fortress and had already seen off an entire LEPretrieval team. Why should she fare any better?

There was also the complication that Artemis could very well be expecting her, especially if he was trading with the B’wa Kell. The idea of walking into a trap did not appeal to Holly. She had already been imprisoned once in Fowl Manor. Doubtless her cell was still furnished.

Holly activated the computer navigation package, calling up Fowl Manor on her helmet visor. A soft crimson light began to blip beside the 3-D plan of the house. The building had been red flagged by the LEP. Holly groaned. Now she would be treated to a video warning, just in case there was one Recon officer under the world who had not heard of Artemis Fowl.

Corporal Lili Frond’s face appeared on her screen. Of course they had chosen Lili for this assignment. The bimbo face of the LEP. Sexism was alive and well and living in Police Plaza. It was rumored that Frond’s LEP scores had been bumped up because she was a descendant of the elfin king.

"You have selected Fowl Manor," said Frond’s image, tossing blond tresses over her shoulder. "This is a red-flagged building. Unauthorized access is strictly forbidden. Do not even attempt a flyover. Artemis Fowl is considered an active threat to the People."

A picture of Fowl’s appeared beside Frond, a digitally enhanced scowl on his face.

"His accomplice, known only as Butler, is not to be approached under any circumstances. He is generally armed and always dangerous."

Butler’s massive head appeared beside the other images. "Armed and dangerous" hardly did him justice. He was the only human in history to have taken on a troll and won.

Holly sent the coordinates to the flight computer, and let the wings do the steering for her. The countryside sped by below. Even since her last visit, the Mud Man infestation seemed to have taken a stronger hold. There was barely an acre of land without dozens of their dwellings digging into its soil, and barely a mile of river without one of their factories pouring its poison into the waters.

The sun finally dipped below the horizon, and Holly raised the filters on her visor. Time was on her side now. She had the entire night to come up with a plan. Holly found that she missed Foaly’s sarcastic comments in her ear. Annoying as the centaur’s observations were, they generally proved accurate, and had saved her hide on more than one occasion. She tried to establish a link, but the flares were still high, and there was no reception. Nothing but static.

Fowl Manor loomed in the distance, completely dominating the surrounding landscape. Holly scanned the building with her thermal bar and found nothing but insect and small rodent life-forms. Spiders and mice. Nobody home. That suited her fine. She landed on the head of a particularly gruesome stone gargoyle, and settled in to wait.

Fowl Manor

The original Fowl castle had been built by Aodhán Fowl in the fifteenth century overlooking low-lying country on all sides. A tactic borrowed from the Normans. Never let your enemies sneak up on you. Over the centuries, the castle had been extensively remodeled until it became a manor, but the attention to security remained. The manor was surrounded by three-foot-thick walls, and wired with a state-of-the-art security system.

Butler pulled off the road, opening the estate gates by a remote control. He glanced back at his employer’s thoughtful face. Sometimes he thought that in spite of all his contacts, informants, and employees, Artemis Fowl was the loneliest boy he’d ever met.

"We could bring a couple of those fairy blasters," he said.

Butler had relieved LEPretrieval One of their weaponry during the previous year’s siege.

Artemis nodded. "Good idea, but remove the nuclear batteries and put them in a bag with some old games and books. We can pretend they’re toys if we’re captured."

"Yes, sir. Good thinking."

The Bentley Red Tag crunched up the driveway, activating the ground’s security lights. There were several lamps on in the main house. These were on randomly alternating timers.

Butler undid his seat belt, stepping lithely from the Bentley.

"You need anything special, Artemis?"

Artemis nodded. "Grab some caviar from the kitchen. You wouldn’t believe the muck they feed us in Bartleby’s for ten thousand a semester."

Butler smiled again. A teenager asking for caviar. He’d never get used to it. The smile withered on his lips halfway to the recently remodeled entrance. A shiver passed across his heart. He knew that feeling well. His mother had used to say that someone had just walked over his grave. A sixth sense. Gut instinct. There was peril somewhere. Invisible, but here nevertheless.

Holly spotted the headlights raking the sky from over a mile away. Optix were no good from this vantage point.

Even when the automobile’s windshield came into view, the glass was tinted and the shadows beyond were deep. Holly felt her heart rate increase at the sight of Fowl’s automobile.

The car wound along the avenue, flickering between the rows of willow and horse chestnut. Holly ducked instinctively, though she was completely shielded from human eyes. You couldn’t be certain with Artemis Fowl’s manservant. Last year he had dismantled a fairy helmet and constructed an eyepiece that allowed him to spot and neutralize an entire crack squad of LEPretrieval commandos. It was hardly likely that he was wearing the lens at the moment, but as Trouble Kelp and his boys had learned, it didn’t pay to underestimate Butler.

Holly set the Neutrino to slightly above the recommended stun setting. A couple of Butler’s brain cells might get fried, but she wasn’t about to lose any sleep over it.

The car swung into the driveway, crunching across the gravel. Butler climbed out. Holly felt her back teeth grinding. Once upon a time, she had saved his life, healing him after a mortal encounter with a troll. She wasn’t sure if she’d do it again.

Holding her breath, Holly set the DoubleDex to slow descent. She alighted soundlessly, aiming her weapon at Butler’s chest. Now there was a target a sun-blinded dwarf couldn’t miss.

The human couldn’t have detected her presence. Not possible. Yet something made him pause. He stopped and sniffed the air. The Mud Man was like a dog. No, not a dog, a wolf.

Holly focused her helmet lens on the weapon, sending a photo to her computer database. Moments later a hi-res rotating 3-D image of the gun appeared in the corner of her visor.

"Sig Sauer," said a recorded byte of Foaly’s voice. "Nine millimeter. Big bullets. One of these hits you and even magic can’t fix it. Other than that you should be all right, presuming you remembered to wear the regulation above-ground microfiber jumpsuit recently patented by me. Then again, being a Recon jock, you probably didn’t."

Holly scowled. Foaly was all the more annoying when he was right. She had jumped on the first available shuttle without even bothering to change into an above-ground suit.

Holly’s eyes were level with Butler’s now, yet still more than three feet from the ground. She released the visor seals, wincing at the pneumatic hiss.

Butler heard the escaping gas and swung toward the source.

"Fairy," he said. "I know you’re there. Unshield or I start shooting."

This was not exactly the tactical advantage Holly had in mind. Her visor was up, and the manservant’s finger was creaking on his pistol’s hair trigger. She took a deep breath and shut down her shield.

"Hello, Butler," she said evenly.

Butler cocked his weapon. "Hello, Captain. Come down slowly, and don’t try any of your . . ."

"Put your gun away," said Holly, her voice layered with the hypnotic mesmer.

Butler fought it, his gun barrel shaking erratically.

"Put it down, Butler. Don’t make me fry your brain."

A vein pulsed in Butler’s eyelid.

Unusual, thought Holly. I’ve never seen that before.

"Don’t fight me, Mud Man. Give in to it."

Butler opened his mouth to speak. To warn Artemis. She pushed harder, the magic cascading around the human’s head.

"I said, put it down!"

A bead of sweat ran down the bodyguard’s cheek.

"PUT IT DOWN!"

And Butler did, gradually and grudgingly.

Holly smiled. "Good, Mud Man. Now back up to the car, and act as though nothing’s wrong."

The manservant’s legs obeyed, ignoring the signals from his own brain.

Holly buzzed up her shield. She was going to enjoy this.

Artemis was composing an e-mail on his laptop.


Dear Dr. Guiney,



Because of your counselor’s tactless interrogation of my little Arty, I have taken him out of school for a course of therapy sessions with real professionals in the Mont Gaspard Clinic in Switzerland. I am considering legal action. Do not attempt to contact me, as that would only serve to irritate me further, and when irritated I generally call my attorneys.



Sincerely, Angeline Fowl




Artemis sent the message, allowing himself the luxury of a small grin. It would be nice to watch Principal Guiney’s expression when he read the electronic letter. Unfortunately the button camera he’d planted in the headmaster’s office could only be accessed within a one-mile radius.

Butler opened the driver’s door, and after a moment slipped into the seat. Artemis folded the phone into its wallet. "Captain Short, I presume. Why don’t you stop vibrating, and settle into the visible spectrum?" Holly speckled into view. There was a gleaming gun in her hand. "Really, Holly, is that necessary?" Holly snorted. "Well, let’s see. Kidnapping, actual bodily harm, extortion, conspiracy to commit murder. I’d say it’s necessary." "Please, Captain Short," smiled Artemis. "I was young and selfish. Believe it or not, I do harbor some doubts over that particular venture."

"Not enough doubts to return the gold?"

"No," admitted Artemis. "Not quite."

"How did you know I was here?"

Artemis steepled his fingers. "There were several clues. One, Butler did not conduct his usual bomb check under the car. Two, he returned without the items he went to fetch. Three, the door was open for several seconds, something no good security man would permit. And four, I detected a slight haze as you entered the vehicle. Elementary, really."

Holly scowled. "Observant little Mud Boy, aren’t you?"

"I try. Now, Captain Short, if you would be so kind as to tell me why you are here."

"As if you don’t know."

Artemis thought for a moment. "Interesting. I would guess that something has happened. Obviously something that I am being held responsible for." He raised an eyebrow fractionally. An intense expression of emotion for Artemis Fowl. "There are humans trading with the People."

"Very impressive," said Holly. "Or it would be, if we didn’t both know that you’re behind it. And if we can’t get the truth out of you, I’m sure your computer files will prove most revealing."

Artemis closed the laptop’s lid. "Captain. I realize there is no love lost between us, but I don’t have time for this now. It is imperative that you give me a few days to sort out my affairs."

"No can do, Fowl. There are a few people underground who would like a word."

Artemis shrugged. "I suppose, after what I did, I can’t really expect any consideration."

"That’s right. You can’t."

"Well then," sighed Artemis. "I don’t suppose I have a choice."

Holly smiled. "That’s right, Fowl, you don’t."

"Shall we go?" Artemis’s tone was meek, but his brain was sparking with ideas. Maybe cooperating with the fairies wasn’t such a bad idea. They had certain abilities, after all.

"Why not?" Holly turned to Butler. "Drive south. Stay on the back roads."

"Tara, I presume. I’ve often wondered where exactly the entrance to E1 was."

"Keep wondering, Mud Boy," muttered Holly. "Now sleep. All this deduction is wearing me out."





CHAPTER 4




FOWL IS FAIR




The Lower Elements, Haven City, Police Plaza, Detention Cell 4

Artemis woke in the LEP interrogation room. He could have been in any police interview office in the world. Same uncomfortable furniture, same old routine.

Root jumped right into it. "Okay, Fowl, start talking."

Artemis took a moment to get his bearings. Holly and Root were facing him across a low plastic-topped table. A bright bulb shone directly into his face.

"Really, Commander. Is this it? I expected more."

"Oh, there’s more. Just not for criminals like you."

Artemis noted that his hands were shackled to the chair.

"You’re not still upset about last year, are you? After all, I won. That is supposed to be that, according to your own Book."

Root leaned forward, until the tip of his cigar was inches from Artemis’s nose.

"This is an entirely different case, Mud Boy. So don’t give me the innocent act."

Artemis was unperturbed. "Which one are you? Good cop or bad cop?"

Root laughed heartily, the tip of his cigar drawing patterns in the air.

"Good cop–bad cop! Hate to tell you this, Dorothy, but you ain’t in Kansas anymore."

The commander loved quoting The Wizard of Oz. Three of his cousins were in the movie.

A figure emerged from the shadows. It had a tail, four legs, two arms, and was holding what looked like a pair of common kitchen plungers.

"Okay, Mud Boy," said the figure. "Just relax, and this might not hurt too much."

Foaly attached the suction cups to Artemis’s eyes, and the boy immediately fell unconscious.

"The sedative is in the rubber seals," explained the centaur. "Gets in through the pores. They never see it coming. Tell me I’m not the cleverest individual in the universe."

"Oh, I don’t know," said Root innocently. "That pixie Koboi is one pretty sharp female."

Foaly stamped a hoof angrily. "Koboi? Koboi? Those wings of hers are ridiculous. If you ask me, we’re using far too much Koboi technology these days. It’s not good to let one company have all LEP’s business."

"Unless it’s yours, of course."

"I’m serious, Julius. I know Opal Koboi from my days at university. She’s not stable. There are Koboi chips in all the new Neutrinos. If those labs go under, all we’d have left are the DNA cannons in Police Plaza and a few cases of electric stun guns."

Root snorted. "Koboi just upgraded every gun and vehicle in the force. Three times the power, half the heat emission. Better than the last statistics from your lab, Foaly."

Foaly threaded a set of fiber-optic cables back to the computer.

"Yes, well, maybe if the Council would give me a decent budget . . ."

"Quit your moaning, Foaly. I saw the budget for this machine, it had better do more than unblock the drains."

Foaly flicked his tail, highly offended.

"This is a Retimager. I’m considering going private with this baby."

"And it does what exactly?"

Foaly activated a plasma screen on the holding-cell wall.

"You see these dark circles; these are the human’s retinas. Every image leaves a tiny etching, like a photo negative. We can feed whatever pictures we want into the computer and search for matches."

Root didn’t exactly fall to his knees in awe. "Isn’t that handy?"

"Well, yes it is, actually. Observe."

Foaly called up an image of a goblin, cross referencing it with the Retimager’s database.

"For every matching point we get a hit. About two hundred hits is normal. General shape of the head, features, and so on. Anything significantly above that and he’s seen that goblin before."

One-eighty-six flashed up on the screen.

"Negative on the goblin. Let’s try a softnose."

Again the count was under two hundred.

"Another negative. Sorry, Captain, but Master Fowl here is innocent. He’s never even seen a goblin, much less traded with the B’wa Kell."

"They could have mind-wiped him."

Foaly removed the seals from Artemis’s eyes. "That’s the beauty of this baby. Mindwipes don’t work. The Retimager operates on actual physical evidence. You’d have to scrub the retinas."

"Anything on the human’s computer?"

"Plenty," replied Foaly. "But nothing incriminating. Not a single mention of goblins or batteries."

Root scratched his square jaw. "What about the big one? He could have been the go-between."

"Did him already with the Retimager. Nothing. Face it, the LEP have pulled in the wrong Mud Men. Wipe ’em and send ’em home."

Holly nodded. The commander didn’t.

"Wait a minute. I’m thinking."

"About what?" asked Holly. "The sooner we get Artemis Fowl’s nose out of our business, the better."

"Maybe not. Since they’re already here . . ."

Holly’s jaw dropped. "Commander. You don’t know Fowl the way I do. Give him half a chance, and he’ll be a bigger problem than the goblins."

"Maybe he could help us with our Mud Man problem."

"I have to object, Commander. These humans are not to be trusted."

Root’s face would have glowed in the dark.

"Do you think I like this, Captain? Do you think I relish the idea of crawling to this Mud Boy? I do not. I would rather swallow live stink worms than ask Artemis Fowl for help. But someone is powering the B’wa Kell’s arms, and I need to find out who. So get with the program, Holly. There’s more at stake here than your little vendetta."

Holly bit her tongue. She couldn’t oppose the commander, not after all he’d done for her, but asking Artemis Fowl for help was the wrong course of action, whatever the situation. She didn’t doubt for a minute that the human would have a solution to their problem, but at what cost?

Root drew a deep breath. "Okay, Foaly, bring him around. And fit him with a translator. Speaking Mud Man gives me a headache."

* * *


Artemis massaged the puffy skin beneath his eyes.

"Sedative in the seals?" he said glancing at Foaly. "Micro needles?"

The centaur was impressed. "You’re pretty sharp for a Mud Boy."

Artemis touched the crescent-shaped nodule fixed above his ear.

"Translator?"

Foaly nodded at the commander. "Speaking in tongues gives some people a headache."

Artemis straightened his school tie. "I see. Now, how can I be of service?"

"What makes you think we need help from you, human?" growled Root around the butt of his cigar.

The boy smirked. "I have a feeling, Commander, that if you did not need something from me, I would be regaining consciousness in my own bed, with absolutely no memory of our encounter."

Foaly hid his grin behind a hairy hand.

"You’re lucky you’re not waking up in a cell," said Holly.

"Still bitter, Captain Short? Can’t we wipe the slate clean?"

Holly’s glare was all the answer he needed.

Artemis sighed. "Very well. I shall guess. There are humans trading with the Lower Elements. And you need Butler to track these merchants down. Close enough?"

The fairies were silent for a moment. Hearing it from Fowl suddenly brought the reality home to them.

"Close enough," admitted Root. "Okay, Foaly, bring Mud Boy up to speed."

The consultant loaded a file from the LEP central server. A series of Network News clips flashed up on the plasma screen. The reporter was a middle-aged elf with a forelock the size of a tidal wave.

"Downtown Haven," crooned the reporter. "Another contraband seizure by the LEP. Hollywood laser disks with an estimated street value of five hundred ounces of gold. The B’wa Kell goblin triad is suspected."

"It gets worse," said Root grimly.

Artemis smiled. "There’s worse?"

The reporter appeared again. This time flames billowed from the windows of a warehouse behind him. His forelock looked a bit crispy.

"Tonight the B’wa Kell have staked their claim to the East Bank by torching a warehouse used by Koboi Laboratories. Apparently the pixie with the golden touch refused to pay their protection fee."

The flames were replaced by another news byte, this time featuring an angry mob.

"Controversy today outside Police Plaza as the public protest the LEP’s failure to deal with the goblin problem. Many ancient houses have been put out of business by the B’wa Kell’s racketeering. Most heavily targeted have been Koboi Laboratories, who have suffered six counts of sabotage in the past month alone."

Foaly froze the image. The public did not look happy.

"The thing you have to understand, Fowl, is that goblins are dumb. I’m not insulting them, it’s scientifically proven. Brains no bigger than rats."

Artemis nodded. "So who’s organizing them?"

Root ground out his cigar. "We don’t know. But it’s getting worse. The B’wa Kell have graduated from petty crime to an all-out war on the police. Last night we intercepted a delivery of batteries from the surface. These batteries are being used to power outlawed softnose laser weapons."

"And Captain Short thought that I might be the Mud Man on the other end of the deal."

"Can you blame me?" muttered Holly.

Artemis ignored the comment. "How do you know the goblins aren’t just ripping off wholesalers? After all, batteries are rarely under guard."

Foaly chuckled. "No, I don’t think you understand just how stupid goblins are. Let me give you an example. One of the B’wa Kell generals—and this is their top fairy—was caught trying to pass off a forged credit card, because he signed his own name. No, whoever is behind this would need a human contact to make sure the deals weren’t fouled up."

"So you’d like me to find out who this human contact is," said Artemis. "And more importantly, how much he knows."

As he spoke, Artemis’s mind was racing. He could work this entire situation to his advantage. The People’s powers would be valuable aces to hold in a negotiation with mobsters. The seeds of a plan began to sprout in his brain.

Root nodded reluctantly. "That’s it. I can’t risk putting LEPrecon agents aboveground. Who knows what technology the goblins have traded? I could be walking my agents into a trap. As humans, you both could blend in."

"Butler, blend in?" smiled Artemis. "I doubt it."

"At least he doesn’t have four legs and a tail," observed Foaly.

"Point taken. And there is no doubt that if any man alive can track down your rogue trader, it’s Butler. But . . ."

Here we go, thought Holly. Artemis Fowl does nothing for nothing.

"But?" prompted Root.

"But if you want my help, I will require something in return."

"What exactly?" said Root warily.

"I need transport to Russia," replied Artemis. "The Arctic Circle, to be precise. And I need help with a rescue attempt."

Root frowned."Northern Russia is not good for us. We can’t shield there because of the radiation."

"Those are my conditions," said Artemis. "The man I intend to rescue is my father. For all I know, it’s already too late. So I really don’t have time to negotiate."

The Mud Boy sounded sincere. Even Holly’s heart softened for a moment. But you never knew with Artemis Fowl, this could all be part of yet another scheme. Root made an executive decision.

"Deal," he said, holding out his hand.

They shook. Fairy and human. A historic moment.

"Good," said Root. "Now, Foaly, wake the big one and give that goblin shuttle a quick systems check."

"What about me?" asked Holly. "Back on stakeout duty?"

If Root had not been a commander, he probably would have cackled. "Oh no, Captain. You’re the best shuttle pilot we have. You’re going to Paris."





CHAPTER 5




DADDY’S GIRL




Koboi Laboratories, East Bank, Haven City

Koboi Laboratories was carved from the rock of Haven’s East Bank. It stood eight stories high, surrounded by a mile of granite on five sides, with access from the front only. The Koboi people had beefed up their security, and who could blame them? After all, the B’wa Kell had specifically targeted the company for arson attacks. The Council had gone so far as to grant the company special weapons permits. If Koboi went under, the entire Haven City defense network went under with it.

Any B’wa Kell goblins attempting to storm the Koboi building would have been met with DNA-coded stun cannons, which scanned an intruder before blasting him. There were no blindspots in the building, no place to hide. The system was foolproof.

But the goblins didn’t have to worry about that. The laboratories’ defenses were actually to keep out any LEP officers who might come snooping at the wrong moment. It was Opal Koboi herself who was funding the goblin triad. The attacks on Koboi were actually a smokescreen to divert suspicions from her actions. The tiny pixie was the mastermind behind the battery operation and the increased B’wa Kell activity. Well, one of the masterminds. But why would an individual of almost limitless wealth possibly wish to associate with a goblin tunnel gang?

Since the day of her birth, nothing much had ever been expected of Opal Koboi. Born to a family of old-money pixies on Principality Hill, she would have made her parents quite content had she attended private school, completed some wishy-washy arts degree, and married a suitable vice president.

In fact, her father, Ferall Koboi’s, dream daughter would have been moderately intelligent, quite pretty, and of course, complacent.

But Opal did not display the personality traits Ferall would have wished for. By the age of ten months she was already walking unaided; by a year and a half she had a vocabulary of more than five hundred words. Before her second birthday she had dismantled her first hard drive.

Opal grew to be precocious, headstrong, and beautiful—a dangerous combination. Ferall lost count of the times he had sat his daughter down, advising her to leave business to the male pixies. Eventually, Opal refused to see him at all. Her blatant hostility was worrying.

Ferall was right to be worried. Opal’s first action in college was to ditch her history of art degree in favor of the male-dominated Brotherhood of Master Engineer. No sooner was the scroll in her hand than Opal set up shop in direct opposition to her father. Patents quickly followed. An engine muffler that doubled as an energy streamliner, a 3-D entertainment system, and of course her specialty, the DoubleDex wing series.

Once Opal had destroyed her father’s business, she proceeded to buy the shares at rockbottom prices, and then incorporate her businesses under the banner of Koboi Laboratories. Within five years, Koboi Laboratories held more defense contracts than any other company. Within ten years, Opal Koboi had personally registered more patents than any fairy alive, except for the centaur Foaly.

But it wasn’t enough. Opal Koboi yearned for the kind of power that hadn’t been held by any single fairy since the days of the monarchy. Luckily, she knew someone who might be able to assist her with that particular ambition. A disillusioned officer in the LEP, and a classmate from her college days. A certain Briar Cudgeon.

Briar had good reason to despise the LEP. After all, they had allowed his public humiliation at the hands of Julius Root to go unpunished. Not only that, but he had been stripped of his commander’s acorns after his disastrous involvement in the Artemis Fowl affair. It had been a simple matter for Opal to slip a truth pill into Cudgeon’s drink in one of Haven’s swankier eateries. To her glee, she found that the delightfully twisted Cudgeon was already formulating a plan to topple the LEP. Quite an ingenious plan, as it happened. All he needed was a partner. One with large reserves of gold and a secure facility at her disposal. Opal was happy to supply both.

Opal was curled catlike in her hoverchair, eavesdropping on Police Plaza, when Cudgeon entered the facility.

"Well?" demanded Cudgeon with customary bluntness.

Koboi didn’t bother to turn around. It had to be Briar. Only he had the necessary access chip to the inner sanctum implanted in his knuckle.

"We lost the last shipment of power cells. A routine LEP stakeout. Bad luck."

"D’Arvit!" swore Cudgeon. "Still, no matter. We have enough stored. And to the LEP, they are simply batteries, after all."

Opal took a breath. "The goblins were armed . . ."

"Don’t tell me."

"With softnoses."

Cudgeon pounded a worktop. "Those idiots! I warned them not to use those weapons. Now Julius will know something is afoot."

"He may know," said Opal placatingly. "But he is powerless to stop us. By the time they figure it out, it will already be too late."

Cudgeon did not smile. He hadn’t in over a year. Instead, his scowl grew more pronounced.

"Good. My time is at hand."

Opal Koboi had installed mole cameras in the LEP network when her engineers were upgrading their system. The units operated on precisely the same frequency as Police Plaza’s own surveillance cameras, plus they drew power from the heat leaking from the LEP’s fiber optics. Completely undetectable.

"Perhaps we should have simply manufactured the batteries ourselves," mused Cudgeon.

"No. Just to build a factory would have set us back two years, and there’s no guarantee that Foaly wouldn’t have discovered it. We had no choice."

Koboi swiveled to face her partner.

"You look terrible. Have you been using that ointment I gave you?"

Cudgeon rubbed his head tenderly. It was bubbled with horrific lumps.

"It doesn’t work. There’s cortisone in it. I’m allergic."

Cudgeon’s condition was unusual, perhaps unique. The previous year, he had been sedated by Commander Root during the Fowl Manor siege. Unfortunately, the tranquilizer had reacted badly with some banned mind-accelerating substances the former commander had been experimenting with. Cudgeon was left with a forehead like melted tar, plus a droopy eye. Ugly and demoted, not a great combination.

"You should get those boils lanced. I can barely stand to look at you." Sometimes Opal Koboi forgot who she was talking to. Briar Cudgeon was not the usual corporate lackey.

Cudgeon calmly drew a customized Redboy blaster, firing two bursts into the hoverchair’s sleeve. The contraption whirled across the stippled rubber tiles, coming to rest sprawled across a bank of hard disks.

The disgraced LEP elf caught Opal by the pointed chin. "You’d better get used to looking at me, my dear Opal. Because soon this face will be on every view screen under this planet, and on top of it."

The tiny pixie curled her fingers into a fist. She was unaccustomed to insubordination, not to mention actual violence. But at moments like this she could see the madness in Cudgeon’s eyes. The drugs had cost him more than his magic and his looks, they had cost him his mind.

And suddenly he was himself again, graciously helping her up as though nothing had happened.

"Now, my dear, progress report. The B’wa Kell are eager for blood."

Opal smoothed the front of her cat suit.

"Captain Short is escorting the human, Artemis Fowl, to E37."

"Fowl is here!" exclaimed Cudgeon. "Of course! I should have guessed that he would be suspected. This is perfect! Our human slave, Luc Carrère, will take care of him, too. Carrère has been mesmerized. I still have that power."

Koboi applied a layer of blood-red lipstick. "There could be trouble if Carrère is captured."

"Don’t worry," Cudgeon assured her. "Monsieur Carrère has been mesmerized so many times that his mind is blanker than a wiped disk. He couldn’t tell any tales, even if he wanted to. Then once he has done our dirty work for us, the French police will lock him up in a nice padded cell."

Opal giggled. For someone who never smiled, Cudgeon had a delicious sense of humor.





CHAPTER 6




PHOTO OPPORTUNITY




Chute E37, Haven

The unlikely allies took the goblin shuttle up E37. Holly was none too pleased. First of all, she was being ordered to work with public enemy number one, Artemis Fowl. And secondly, the goblin shuttle was held together by spit and prayers.

Holly hooked a com rig over one pointy ear. "Hey, Foaly? You there?"

"Right here, Captain."

"Remind me again why I’m flying this old slammer."

LEPrecon pilots referred to suspect shuttles as "slammers" because of their alarming tendency to slam into the chute walls.

"The reason you’re flying that old slammer, Captain, is that the goblins built this shuttle inside the port, and all three old access ramps were removed years ago. It would take days to get a new rig in there. So, I’m afraid we’re stuck with the goblin ship."

Holly strapped herself into the pilot’s wraparound seat. The thruster toggles almost seemed to jump into her hands. For a split second Captain Short’s natural good humor returned. She was an ace pilot, top of her class in the academy. On her final assessment, Wing Commander Vinyáya had written, "Cadet Short could fly a shuttle pod through the gap in your teeth." It was a compliment with a sting in the tail. On her first tryout in a pod, Holly had lost control, crash-landing the craft six feet from Vinyáya’s nose.

So for five seconds, Holly was happy. Then she remembered who her passengers were.

"I wonder, could you tell me," said Artemis, settling into the copilot’s chair, "how close the Russian terminal is to Murmansk?"

"Civilians behind the yellow line," growled Holly, ignoring the inquiry.

Artemis pressed on. "This is important to me. I am trying to plan a rescue."

Holly grinned tightly. "There’s so much irony here, I could write a poem. The kidnapper looking for help with a kidnapping."

Artemis rubbed his temples.

"Holly, I am a criminal. It’s what I do best. When I abducted you, I was thinking only of the ransom. You were never supposed to be in any danger."

"Oh, really?"said Holly."Apart from bio-bombs and trolls."

"True," admitted Artemis. "Sometimes plans don’t translate smoothly from paper to real life." He paused to clean some nonexistent dirt from his manicured nails. "I have matured, Captain. This is my father. I need all the information I can gather before facing the Mafiya."

Holly relented. It wasn’t easy growing up without a father. She knew. Her own father had passed away when she was barely sixty. More than twenty years ago now.

"Okay, Mud Boy, listen up. I’m only saying this once."

Artemis sat up. Butler’s head appeared in the cockpit. He could smell a war story.

"Over the past two centuries, with the advances in human technology, the LEP have been forced to shut down over sixty terminals. We pulled out of northern Russia in the sixties. The entire Kola peninsula is a nuclear disaster. The People have no tolerance for radiation, we never built up a resistance. In truth, there wasn’t much to close down. Just a grade-three terminal and a couple of cloaking projectors. The People aren’t very fond of the Arctic. A bit frosty. Everybody was glad to be leaving. So, to answer your question: there’s one unmanned terminal, with little or no aboveground facilities, located about twenty klicks north of Murmansk."

Foaly’s voice blurted from the intercom, interrupting what was dangerously close to a civil conversation.

"Okay, Captain. You’ve got a clear run to the subway. There’s still a bit of waffle from the last flare, so go easy on the thrusters."

Holly pulled down her mouth mike. "Roger that, Foaly. Have the rad suits ready when I get back. We’re on a tight schedule."

Foaly chuckled. "Take it easy on the thrusters, Holly. Technically, this is Artemis’s first time in the chutes, seeing as he and Butler were mesmerized on the way down. We wouldn’t want him getting a fright."

Holly gunned the throttle quite a bit more than was absolutely necessary.

"No," she growled, "we wouldn’t want him getting a fright."

Artemis decided to strap on his restraining harness. A good idea, as it turned out.

Captain Short gunned the makeshift shuttle down the magnetized approach rail. The fins shook, sending twin waves of sparks cascading past the portholes. Holly adjusted the internal gyroscopes, otherwise there’d be Mud Men vomiting all over the passenger area.

Holly’s thumbs hovered over the turbo buttons.

"Okay. Well, let’s see what this bucket can do."

"Don’t go trying for any records, Holly," said Foaly over the speakers. "That ship is not built for speed. I’ve seen more aerodynamic dwarfs."

Holly grunted. After all, what was the point in flying slowly? None whatsoever. And if you happened to terrify a few Mud Men along the way, well that was just an added bonus.

The service tunnel opened onto the main chute. Artemis gasped. It was an awe-inspiring sight. You could drop Mount Everest down this chute, and it wouldn’t even hit the sides. A deep red glow pulsed from the earth’s core like the fires of hell, and the constant crack of contracting rock smacked the hull like physical blows.

Holly fired up all four flight engines, tumbling the shuttle into the abyss. Her worries evaporated like the eddies of mist swirling around the cockpit. It was a flyboy thing. The lower you went without pulling out of the dive, the tougher you were. Even the fiery demise of Retrieval Officer Bom Arbles couldn’t stop the LEP pilots from core diving. Holly held the current record. Five hundred yards before dipping the flaps. That had cost her two weeks’ suspension plus a hefty fine.

Not today though. No records in a slammer. With the G-force rippling the skin on her cheeks, Holly dragged the joysticks back, pulling the nose out of vertical. It gave her no small satisfaction to hear both humans sigh with relief.

"Okay, Foaly, we’re on the up ’n’ up. What’s the situation aboveground?"

She could hear Foaly tapping a keyboard.

"Sorry, Holly. I can’t get a lock on any of our surface equipment. Too much radiation from the last flare. You’re on your own."

Holly eyed the two pale humans in the cockpit. On my own, she thought. I wish.

Paris

So, if Artemis wasn’t helping Cudgeon in his quest to arm the B’wa Kell, who was? Some tyrannical dictator? Perhaps a disgruntled general with access to an unlimited supply of power cells? Well, no. Not exactly.

Luc Carrère was the human responsible for selling batteries to the B’wa Kell. Not that you’d know it to look at him. In fact, he didn’t even know it himself. Luc was a small-time French private eye who was well known for his inefficiency. In P.I. circles, it was said that Luc couldn’t trace a golf ball in a barrel of mozzarella.

Cudgeon had decided to use Luc for three reasons. One, Foaly’s files showed that Carrère had a reputation as a wheeler-dealer. In spite of his ineptness as an investigator, Luc had a knack for laying his hand on whatever it was the client wanted to buy. Two, the man was greedy and had never been able to resist the lure of easy money. And three, Luc was stupid. And as every little fairy knows, weak minds are easier to mesmerize.

The fact that he had located Carrère in Foaly’s database was nearly enough to make Cudgeon smile. Of course, Briar would have preferred not to have any human link in the chain. But a chain comprised completely of goblin links is one dumb chain.

Establishing contact with any Mud Man was not something Cudgeon took lightly. Deranged as he was, Briar was well aware what would happen if the humans got wind of a new market underground. They would swarm to the earth’s core like a hive of red-backed flesh-eating ants. Cudgeon was not ready to meet the humans head on. Not yet. Not until he had the might of the LEP behind him.

So instead, Cudgeon sent Luc Carrère a little package. First-class shielded goblin mail . . .

Luc Carrère had shuffled into his apartment one July evening to find a small parcel lying on his desk. The package was nothing more than a FedEx delivery. Or something that looked very much like a FedEx delivery.

Luc slit the tape. Inside the box, cushioned on a nest of hundred-euro bills, was a small, flat device of some kind, like a portable CD player, but made from a strange black metal that seemed to absorb light. Luc would have shouted to his receptionist, and instructed his secretary to hold all calls. If he had had a receptionist. If he had had a secretary. Instead, the P.I. began stuffing cash down his grease-stained shirt as though the notes would disappear.

Suddenly, the device popped open, clamlike, revealing a micro screen and speakers. A shadowy face appeared on the display. Though Luc could see nothing but a pair of red-rimmed eyes, that was enough to set goose bumps popping across his back.

Funny though, because when the face began to speak, Luc’s worries slid away like an old snakeskin. How could he have been worried? This person was obviously a friend. What a lovely voice. Like a choir of angels, all on its own.

"Luc Carrère?"

Luc nearly cried. Poetry.

"Oui. C’est moi."

"Bonsoir. Do you see the money, Luc? It’s all yours."

A hundred miles underground, Cudgeon almost smiled. This was easier than expected. He had been worried that the dribble of power left in his brain wouldn’t be sufficient to mesmerize the human. But this particular Mud Man seemed to have the willpower of a hungry hog faced with a trough of turnips.

Luc held two wads of cash in his fists.

"This money. It’s mine? What do I have to do?"

"Nothing. The money is yours. Do whatever you want."

Now Luc Carrère knew that there was no such thing as free cash, but that voice. That voice was truth in a micro speaker.

"But there’s more. A lot more."

Luc stopped what he was doing, which was kissing a hundred-euro bill.

"More? How much more?"

The eyes seemed to glow crimson.

"As much as you want, Luc. But to get it, I need you to do me a favor."

Luc was hooked. "Sure. What kind of favor?"

The voice emanating from the speaker was as clear as spring water.

"It’s simple, not even illegal. I need batteries, Luc. Thousands of batteries. Maybe millions. Do you think you can get them for me?"

Luc thought about it for about two seconds, the notes were tickling his chin. As a matter of fact, he had a contact on the river who regularly shipped boatloads of hardware to the Middle East, including batteries. Luc was confident that some of those shipments could be diverted.

"Batteries. Oui, certainement, I could do that."

And so it went on for several months. Luc Carrère hit his contact for every battery he could lay his hands on. It was a sweet deal. Luc would crate the cells up in his apartment, and in the morning they would be gone. In their place would sit a fresh pile of bills. Of course the euros were fake, run off on an old Koboi printer, but Luc couldn’t tell the difference; nobody outside the treasury could.

Occasionally the voice on the screen would make a special request. Some fire suits for example. But hey, Luc was a player now. Nothing was more than a phone call away. In six months Luc Carrère went from a one-room apartment to a fancy loft in Saint Germain. So naturally the Sureté and Interpol were building separate cases against him. But Luc wasn’t to know that. All he knew was that for the first time in his corrupt life, he was riding the gravy train.

One morning there was a another parcel on his new marble-topped desk. Bigger this time. Bulkier. But Luc wasn’t worried. It was probably more money.

Luc popped the top to reveal an aluminum case, and a second communicator. The eyes were waiting for him.

"Bonjour, Luc. Ça va?"

"Bien," replied Luc, mesmerized from the first syllable.

"I have a special assignment for you today. Do this right, and you will never have to worry about money again. Your tool is in the case."

"What is it?" asked the P.I. nervously. The instrument looked like a weapon, and even though Luc was mesmerized Cudgeon did not have enough magic to completely bury the Parisian’s nature. The P.I. might have been devious, but he was no killer.

"It’s a special camera, Luc, that’s all. If you pull that thing that looks like a trigger, it takes a picture," said Cudgeon.

"Oh," said Luc Carrère blearily.

"Some friends of mine are coming to visit you. And I want you to take their picture. It’s just a game we play."

"How will I know your friends?" asked Luc. "A lot of people visit me."

"They will ask about the batteries. If they ask about the batteries, then you take their picture."

"Sure. Great." And it was great. Because the voice would never make him do anything wrong. The voice was his friend.

E37 Shuttleport

Holly steered the slammer through the chute’s final section. A proximity sensor in the shuttle’s nose set off the landing lights.

"Hmm," muttered Holly.

Artemis squinted through the quartz windshield.

"A problem?"

"No. It’s just that those lights shouldn’t be working. There hasn’t been a power source in the terminal since the last century."

"Our goblin friends, no doubt."

Holly frowned. "Doubtful. It takes half a dozen goblins to turn on a glow cube. Wiring a shuttleport takes real know-how. Elfin know-how."

"The plot thickens," said Artemis. If he’d had a beard, he would have stroked it. "I smell a traitor. Now who would have access to all this technology, and a motive for selling it?"

Holly pointed the shuttle’s cone toward the landing nodes.

"We’ll find out soon enough. You just get me a live trader, and my mesmer will soon have him spilling his guts."

The shuttle docked with a pneumatic hiss as the bay’s rubber collar formed an airtight seal against the outer hull. Butler was out of his chair before the seat belt light winked off, ready for action.

"Just don’t kill anyone," warned Holly. "That’s not how the LEP like to operate. Anyway, dead Mud Men don’t rat on their partners." She brought up a schematic on the wall screen. It depicted Paris’s old city. "Okay," she said, pointing to a bridge across the Seine. "We’re here. Under this bridge, two hundred feet from Notre Dame. That’s the cathedral, not the football team. The dock is disguised as a bridge support. Stand in the doorway until I give you a green light. We have to be careful here. The last thing we need is some Parisian seeing you emerge from a brick wall."

"You’re not accompanying us?" asked Artemis.

"Orders," said Holly, scowling. "Apparently this could be a trap. Who knows what hardware is pointed at the terminal door? Lucky for you, you’re expendable. Irish tourists on holiday, you’ll fit right in."

"Lucky us. What leads do we have?"

Holly slid a disk into the console. "Foaly stuck his Retimager on the goblin prisoner. Apparently he has seen this human."

The captain brought up a mug shot on the screen.

"Foaly got a match on his Interpol files. Luc Carrère. Disbarred attorney, does a bit of P.I. work."

She printed off a card. "Here’s his address. He just moved to a swanky new apartment. It could be nothing, but at least we have somewhere to start. I need you to immobilize him, and show him this." Holly handed the bodyguard what looked like a diver’s watch.

"What is it?" asked the manservant.

"Just a com-screen. You just put it in front of Carrère’s face and I can mesmerize the truth out of him from down here. It also contains one of Foaly’s doodads. A personal shield. The Safetynet. A prototype, you’ll be delighted to know. You can have the honor of testing it. Touch the screen, and the micro reactor generates a six-foot diameter sphere of tri-phased light. No good for solids, but laser bursts or concussion shocks are okay."

"Hmm," said Butler doubtfully. "We don’t get a lot of laser bursts aboveground."

"Hey, don’t use it. Do I care?"

Butler studied the tiny instrument. "Six-foot radius? What about the bits that are sticking out?"

Holly thumped the manservant playfully in the stomach.

"My advice to you, big man, is to curl up in a ball."

"I’ll try to remember that," said Butler, cinching the strap around his wrist. "You two try not to kill each other while I’m gone."

Artemis was surprised. It didn’t happen very often.

"While you’re gone? Surely, you don’t expect me to stay behind."

Butler tapped his forehead.

"Don’t worry, you’ll see everything on the iris-cam."

Artemis fumed for several moments, before settling into a passenger chair.

"I know. I would only slow you down, and that in turn would slow down the search for my father."

"Of course, if you insist . . ."

"No. This is no time for childishness."

Butler smiled gently. Childishness was one thing Master Artemis was hardly likely to be accused of.

"How long do I have?"

Holly shrugged. "As long as it takes. Obviously, the sooner the better, for everybody’s sake." She glanced at Artemis. "Especially his father’s."

In spite of everything, Butler felt good. This was life at its most basic. The hunt. Not exactly the Stone Age, but the principle was the same: the survival of the fittest. And there was no doubt in Butler’s mind that he was the fittest.

Butler followed Holly’s directions to a service ladder, scaling it quickly to the doorway above. He waited beside the metal door, until the light above changed from red to green, and the camouflaged entrance slid noiselessly back. The bodyguard emerged cautiously. While it was likely that bridge was deserted, he could hardly explain himself away as a homeless person, dressed as he was in a dark designer suit.

Butler felt a breeze play across the shaven dome of his crown. The morning air felt good, even after a few hours underground. He could only imagine how fairies must feel. Forced out of their native environment by humans. From what Butler had seen, if the People ever decided to reclaim what was theirs, the battle wouldn’t last long. But luckily for mankind, fairies were a peace-loving people, and not prepared to go to war over real estate.

The coast was clear. Butler stepped casually onto the riverside walkway, proceeding south toward the Saint Germain district.

A riverboat swept past on his right, ferrying a hundred tourists around the city. Butler automatically covered his face with a massive hand. Just in case some of those tourists had cameras pointed in this direction.

The bodyguard mounted a set of stone steps to the road above. Behind him the jagged spire of Notre Dame rose into the sky, and to his left the Eiffel Tower’s famous profile punctured the clouds. Butler strode confidently across the main road, nodding at several French ladies who stopped to stare.

He was familiar with this area of Paris, having spent a month recuperating here after a particularly dangerous assignment for the French Secret Service.

Butler strolled along rue Jacob. Even at this hour, cars and lorries jammed the narrow street. Drivers leaned on their horns, hanging from car windows, Gallic tempers running wild. Mopeds dodged between bumpers, and a large number of extraordinarily pretty girls strolled past. Butler smiled. Paris. He had forgotten.

Carrère’s apartment was on rue Bonaparte opposite the church. Apartments in Saint Germain cost more per month than most Parisians made in a year. Butler ordered coffee and a croissant at the Café Bonaparte, settling himself at an outside table. One with a perfect view of Monsieur Carrère’s window.

He didn’t have long to wait. In less than an hour, the chunky Parisian appeared on his balcony, leaning on the ornate railing for several minutes. He very obligingly presented front and side views of himself.

Holly’s voice sounded in Butler’s ear. "That’s our boy. Is he alone?"

"I can’t tell," muttered the bodyguard into his hand. The flesh-tone mike glued to his throat would pick up any vibrations and translate them for Holly.

"Just a sec."

Butler heard a keyboard being tapped, and suddenly the iris-cam in his eye sparked. The vision in one eye jumped into a completely different spectrum.

"Heat sensitive," Holly informed him. "Hot equals red. Cold equals blue. Not a very strong system, but the lens should penetrate an outer wall."

Butler cast a fresh eye over the apartment. There were three red objects in the room. One was Carrère’s heart, which pulsed crimson in the center of his pink body. The second appeared to be a hot plate, possibly a coffeepot. And the third was a TV.

"Okay. All clear, I’m going in."

"Affirmative. Watch your step. This is a bit too convenient."

"Agreed."

Butler crossed the cobbled street to the four-story apartment building. There was an intercom security system, but this structure was nineteenth century, and a solid shoulder at the right point popped the bolt right out of its housing.

"I’m in."

There was noise on the stairs above. Someone coming this way. Butler wasn’t unduly concerned, nevertheless he slid a palm inside his jacket, fingers resting on his handgun’s grip. It was unlikely he would need it. Even the most boisterous young bucks generally gave Butler a wide berth. Something to do with his merciless eyes. Being almost seven feet tall didn’t hurt either.

A group of teenagers rounded the corner.

"Excusez moi," said Butler, gallantly stepping aside.

The girls giggled. The boys glared. One, a unibrowed rugby type, even thought about passing comment. Then Butler winked at him. It was a peculiar wink, somehow simultaneously cheerful and terrifying. No comments were passed.

Butler ascended to the fourth floor without incident. Carrère’s apartment was on the gable end. Two walls of windows. Very expensive.

The bodyguard was considering his breaking-and-entering options when he noticed the door was open. Open doors generally meant one of two things: One, nobody was left alive to close it. Or, two, he was expected. Neither of these options appealed to him particularly.

Butler entered cautiously. The apartment walls were lined with open crates. Battery packs and fire suits poked through the Styrofoam packing. The floor was littered with thick wads of currency.

"Are you a friend?" It was Carrère. He was slumped in an oversized armchair, a weapon of some kind nestled on his lap.

Butler approached cautiously. An important rule of combat is that every opponent be taken seriously.

"Take it easy."

The Parisian raised the weapon. The grip was made for smaller fingers. A child, or a fairy.

"I asked if you were a friend?"

Butler cocked his own pistol. "No need to shoot."

"Stand still," ordered Carrère. "I’m not going to shoot you, just take your photo maybe. The voice told me."

Holly’s voice sounded in the earpiece. "Get closer. I need to see the eyes."

Butler holstered his weapon, taking a step forward. "You see, no one has to get hurt here."

"I’m going to enhance the image," said Holly. "This may sting a bit."

The tiny camera in his eye buzzed, and suddenly Butler’s vision was magnified by four. Which would have been just fine had the magnification not been accompanied by a sharp jolt of pain. Butler blinked a stream of tears from his eye. Below in the goblin shuttle, Holly studied Luc’s pupils.

"He’s been mesmerized," she pronounced. "Several times. You see how the iris has actually become jagged. You mesmerize a human too much, and they can go blind."

Artemis studied the image.

"Is it safe to mesmerize him again?"

Holly shrugged. "Doesn’t matter. He’s already under a spell. That particular Mud Man is just following orders. His brain doesn’t know a thing about it."

Artemis grabbed the mike stand. "Butler! Get out of there. Right now."

In the apartment, Butler stood his ground. Any sudden movement might be his last.

"Butler," said Holly. "Listen carefully. That gun pointed at you is a wide-bore low-frequency blaster. We call it a bouncer; it was developed for tunnel skirmishes. If he pulls that trigger, a wide-arc laser is going to ricochet off the walls until it hits something."

"I see," muttered Butler.

"What did you say?" asked Carrère.

"Nothing. I just don’t like having my photo taken."

A spark of Luc’s greedy personality surfaced. "I like that watch on your wrist. It looks expensive. Is it a Rolex?"

"You don’t want this," said Butler, very reluctant to part with the com-screen. "It’s cheap. A piece of trash."

"Just give me the watch,"

Butler peeled back the strap on the instrument on his wrist.

"If I give you this watch, maybe you can tell me about all these batteries."

"It is you! Say cheese," squealed Carrère, forcing his pudgy thumb into the undersized trigger guard, and pulling.

For Butler, time seemed to slow to a crawl. It was almost as though he were inside his personal time stop. His soldier’s brain absorbed all the facts and analyzed his options.

Carrère’s finger was too far gone. In a moment a wide-bore laser burst would be speeding his way, and would continue to bounce around the room until they were both dead. His gun was of no use in a situation like this. All he had was the Safetynet, but a six-foot sphere was not going to be enough. Not for two good-size humans. So in the fraction of a second left to him, Butler formulated a new strategy. If the sphere stopped concussive waves coming in, perhaps it could stop them coming out. Butler touched the screen, and hurled the device in Carrère’s direction.

Not a nanosecond too soon, a spherical shield blossomed, enveloping the expanding beam. Three hundred and sixty degrees of protection. It was a sight to see, a fireworks display in a bubble. The shield hovered overhead, shafts of light ricocheting against the sphere’s curved planes.

Carrère was hypnotized by the sight, and Butler took advantage of the distraction to disarm him.

"Start the engines," grunted the bodyguard into his throat mike. "The Sureté are going to be all over this place in minutes. Foaly’s Safetynet didn’t stop the noise."

"Roger that. What about Monsieur Carrère?"

Butler dumped the dazed Parisian flat on the carpet.

"Luc and I are going to have a little chat."

For the first time Carrère seemed to be aware of his surroundings.

"Who are you?" he mumbled. "What’s happening?"

Butler ripped open the man’s shirt, placing his palm flat on the P.I.’s heart. Time for a little trick he’d learned from Madame Ko, his Japanese sensei. "Don’t worry, Monsieur Carrère. I’m a doctor. There’s been an accident, but you’re perfectly fine."

"An accident? I don’t remember any accident."

"Trauma. It’s quite normal. I’m just going to check your vitals."

Butler placed a thumb on Luc’s neck, locating the artery.

"I’m going to ask you a few questions, to check for concussion."

Luc didn’t argue, then again who’d argue with a six-foot-plus Eurasian man with muscles like a Michelangelo statue?

"Is your name Luc Carrère?"

"Yes."

Butler noted the pulse rate. One from the heartbeat, and a second reference on the carotid artery. Steady in spite of the accident.

"Are you a private eye?"

"I prefer the title investigator."

No increase in pulse rate. The man was telling the truth.

"Have you ever sold batteries to a mystery buyer?"

"No, I have not," protested Luc. "What kind of doctor are you?"

The man’s pulse skyrocketed. He was lying.

"Answer the questions, Monsieur Carrère," said Butler sternly. "Just one more. Have you ever had dealings with goblins?"

Relief flooded through Luc. The police did not ask questions about fairies. "What are you? Crazy? Goblins? I don’t know what you’re talking about."

Butler closed his eyes, concentrating on the pounding beneath his thumb and palm. Luc’s pulse had settled. He was telling the truth. He had never had any direct dealings with the goblins. Obviously the B’wa Kell weren’t that stupid.

Butler stood up, pocketing the bouncer. He could hear the sirens on the street below.

"Hey, Doctor," protested Luc. "You can’t just leave me like this."

Butler eyed him coldly. "I would take you with me, but the police will want to know why your apartment is full of what I suspect are counterfeit bills."

Luc could only watch with his mouth open as the giant figure disappeared into the corridor. He knew he should run, but Luc Carrère hadn’t run more than fifty feet since gym class in the nineteen-seventies, and anyway his legs had suddenly turned to jelly. The thought of a long stretch in prison can do that to a person.





CHAPTER 7




CONNECTING THE DOTS




Haven City, Police Plaza

Root pointed the finger of authority at Holly.

"Congratulations, Captain, you managed to lose some LEP technology."

Holly was ready for that one. "Not strictly my fault, sir. The human was mesmerized, and you ordered me not to leave the shuttle. I had no control over the situation."

"Ten out of ten," commented Foaly. "Good answer. Anyway the Safetynet has a self-destruct, like everything else I send into the field."

"Quiet, civilian," snapped the Commander.

But there was no venom in the LEP officer’s rebuke. He was relieved, they all were. The human threat had been contained, and without the loss of a single life.

They were gathered in a conference room reserved for civilian committees. Generally debriefings of this importance would be held in the Operations Center, but the LEP were not ready to show Artemis Fowl the nerve center of their defenses just yet.

Root jabbed an intercom button on his desk.

"Trouble, are you out there?"

"Yessir."

"Okay. Now listen, I want you to stand down the alert. Send the teams into the deep tunnels, see if we can’t root out a few goblin gangs. There are still plenty of loose ends. Who’s organizing the B’wa Kell for one, and for what reason?"

Artemis knew he shouldn’t say anything. The sooner his end of the bargain was completed, the sooner he could be in the Arctic. But the entire Paris scenario seemed suspicious.

"Does anyone else think this is too easy? It’s just what you all wanted to happen. Not to mention the fact that there could be more mesmerized humans up there."

Root did not appreciate being lectured by a Mud Boy. Especially this particular Mud Boy.

"Look, Fowl, you’ve done what we asked. The Paris connection has been broken off. There won’t be any more illegal shipments coming down that chute, I assure you. In fact we have doubled security on all chutes, whether they’re operational or not. The important thing is that whoever is trading with the humans hasn’t told them about the People. There will, of course, be a major investigation, but that’s an internal problem. So don’t you worry your juvenile head about it. Concentrate on growing some bristles."

Foaly interrupted before Artemis could respond. "About Russia," he said, hurriedly placing his torso between Artemis and the commander. "I’ve got a lead."

"You traced the e-mail?"

"Exactly," confirmed Foaly, switching to lecture mode.

"But that’s been spiked. Untraceable."

Foaly chuckled openly. "Spiked? Don’t make me laugh. You Mud Men and your communications systems. You’re still using wires, for heaven’s sake. If it’s been sent, I can trace it."

"So, where did you trace it to?"

"Every computer has a signature, as individual as a fingerprint," continued Foaly. "Networks too leave micro traces, depending on the age of the wiring. Everything is molecular, and if you pack gigabytes of data into a little cable, some of that cable is going to wear off."

Butler was growing impatient."Listen, Foaly. Time is of the essence. Mister Fowl’s life could hang in the balance. So get to the point before I start breaking things."

The centaur’s first impulse was to laugh. Surely, the human was joking. Then he remembered what Butler had done to Trouble Kelp’s Retrieval squad, and decided to proceed directly to the point.

"Very well, Mud Man. Keep your hair on."

Well, almost directly to the point.

"I put the MPG through my filters. Uranium residue points to northern Russia."

"Now, there’s a shock."

"I’m not finished," said Foaly. "Watch and learn."

The centaur brought up a satellite photo of the Arctic Circle on the wall screen, with every keystroke the highlighted area shrank.

"Uranium means Severomorsk. Or somewhere within a hundred miles. The copper wiring is from an old network. Early twentieth century, patched up over the years. The only match is Murmansk. As easy as connecting the dots."

Artemis sat forward in his chair.

"There are two hundred and eighty-four thousand land lines on that network." Foaly had to stop for a laugh. "Land lines. Barbarians."

Butler cracked his knuckles loudly.

"Ah, so two hundred and eighty-four thousand land lines. I wrote a program to search for hits on our MPG. Two possible matches. One: the Hall of Justice."

"Not likely. The other."

"The other line is registered to a Mikhael Vassikin on Lenin Prospekt."

Artemis felt his stomach churn. "And what do we know about Mikhael Vassikin?"

Foaly wiggled his fingers like a concert pianist. "I ran a search on my own intelligence files archives. I like to keep tabs on Mud Man so-called intelligence agencies. Quite a few mentions of you by the way, Butler."

The manservant tried to look innocent, but his facial muscles couldn’t quite pull it off.

"Mikhael Vassikin is ex-KGB, now working for the Mafiya. The official term is khuligany. An enforcer. Not high level but not street trash either. Vassikin’s boss is a Murmansker known as Britva. The group’s main source of income comes from the kidnapping of European businessmen. In the past five years they have abducted six Germans and a Swede."

"How many were recovered alive?" asked Artemis, his voice a whisper.

Foaly consulted his statistics. "None," he said. "And in two cases, the negotiators went missing. Eight million dollars in lost ransom."

Butler struggled from a tiny fairy chair.

"Right, enough talk. I think it’s time Mister Vassikin was introduced to my friend, Mister Fist."

Melodramatic, thought Artemis. But I couldn’t have put it better myself.

"Yes, old friend. Soon enough. But I have no wish to add you to the list of lost negotiators. These men are smart. So we must be smarter. We have advantages that none of our predecessors had. We know who the kidnapper is, we know where he lives, and most importantly, we have fairy magic." Artemis glanced at Commander Root. "We do have fairy magic, don’t we?"

"You have this fairy at any rate," replied the commander. "I won’t force any of my people to go to Russia. But I could use some backup." He glanced at Holly. "What do you think?"

"Of course I’m coming," said Holly. "I’m the best shuttle pilot you have."

Koboi Laboratories

There was a firing range in the Koboi Labs basement. Opal had it constructed to her exact specifications. It incorporated her 3-D projection system, was completely soundproof, and was mounted on gyroscopes. You could drop an elephant from fifty feet in there, and no seismograph under the world would detect as much as a shudder.

The purpose of the firing range was to give the B’wa Kell somewhere to practice with their softnose lasers, before the operation began in earnest. But it was Briar Cudgeon who had logged more hours on the simulations than anyone else. He seemed to spend every spare minute fighting virtual battles with his nemesis, Commander Julius Root.

When Opal found him, he was pumping shells from his prized softnose Redboy into a 3-D holo-screen running one of Root’s old training films. It was pathetic really, a fact she didn’t bother mentioning.

Cudgeon twisted out his earplugs.

"So. Who died?"

Opal handed him a video pad. "This just came in on the spy cameras. Carrère proved as inept as usual. Everyone survived, but as you predicted, Root has called off the alert. And now the commander has agreed to personally escort the humans to northern Russia, inside the Arctic Circle."

"I know where northern Russia is," Cudgeon snapped. He paused, stroking his bubbled forehead thoughtfully for several moments. "This could turn out to our advantage. Now we have the perfect opportunity to eliminate the commander. With Julius out of the way, the LEP will be like a headless stink worm. Especially with their surface communications down. Their communications are down, I take it?"

"Of course," replied Opal. "The jammer is linked into the chute sensors. All interference with surface transmitters will be blamed on the magma flares."

"Perfect," said Cudgeon, his mouth twitching in what could almost be described as a smile. "I want you to disable all LEP weaponry now. No need to give Julius any advantages."

When Koboi Laboratories had upgraded LEP weapons and transport, a tiny dot of solder had been included in each device. The solder was actually a mercury-glycerine solution that would detonate when a signal of the appropriate frequency was broadcast from the Koboi communications dish. LEP blasters would be useless, and the B’wa Kell would be armed to the teeth with softnose lasers.

"Consider it done," said Opal. "Are you certain Root won’t be returning? He could upset our entire plan."

Cudgeon polished the Redboy on the leg of his uniform. "Don’t fret, my dear. Julius won’t be coming back. Now that I know where he’s going, I’ll arrange for a little welcome party. I’m certain our scaly friends will be only too eager to oblige."

The funny thing was that Briar Cudgeon didn’t even like goblins. In fact he detested them. They made his skin crawl with their reptilian ways—their gas-burner breath, their lidless eyes, and their constantly darting forked tongues.

But they did supply a certain something that Cudgeon needed: dumb muscle.

For centuries the B’wa Kell triad had skulked around Haven’s borders, vandalizing what they couldn’t steal and fleecing any tourists stupid enough to stray off the beaten path. But they were never really any threat to society. Whenever they got too cheeky, Commander Root would send a team into the tunnels to flush out the culprits.

One evening a disguised Briar Cudgeon strolled into The Second Skin, a notorious B’wa Kell hangout, plonked an attaché case of gold ingots on the bar, and said: "I want to talk to the triad."

Cudgeon was searched and blindfolded by several of the club’s bouncers. When the hood came off his face, Cudgeon was in a damp warehouse, its walls lined with creeping moss. Three elderly goblins were seated across the table from him. He recognized them from their mug shots:Scalene, Sputa, and Phlebum. The Triad old guard.

The gift of gold, and the promise of more was enough to pique their curiosity. His first utterance was carefully planned.

"Ah, Generals, I am honored that you greet me in person."

The goblins puffed their wrinkled old chests proudly. Generals? The rest of Cudgeon’s patter was equally smooth. They would organize the B’wa Kell, streamline it, and most importantly arm it. Then, when the time was right, they would rise up and overthrow the Council and their lackeys, the LEP. Cudgeon promised that his first act as governor general would be to free all the goblin prisoners in Howler’s Peak. It didn’t hurt that he subtly laced his speech with hints of the hypnotic mesmer.

It was an offer the goblins could not refuse: gold, weapons, freedom for their brothers, and of course a chance to crush the hated LEP.

It never occurred to the B’wa Kell that Cudgeon could betray them just as easily as he had the LEP. They were dumb as stink worms and twice as shortsighted.

Cudgeon met with General Scalene, in a secret chamber beneath the Koboi labs. He was in a foul mood following Luc’s failure to put a scratch on any of his enemies. But there was always plan B. The B’wa Kell were always eager to kill someone. It didn’t really matter who.

The goblin was excited, thirsty for blood. He panted blue flames like a broken heater. "When do we go to war, Cudgeon? Tell us, when?" The elf kept his distance. He dreamed of the day when these stupid creatures were no longer necessary. "Soon, General Scalene. Very soon. But first I need a favor. It concerns Commander Root." The goblin’s yellow eyes narrowed. "Root? The hated one. Can we kill him? Can we crack his skull and fry his brains?" Cudgeon smiled magnanimously."Certainly, General. All of these things. Once Root is dead, the city will fall easily." The goblin was bobbing now, loping with excitement. "Where is he? Where is Root?" "I don’t know," Cudgeon admitted. "But I know where he will be in six hours." "Where? Tell me, elf?" Cudgeon heaved a large case onto the table. It con

tained four pairs of Koboi DoubleDex. "Chute ninety-three. Take these, send your best hit squad. And tell them to wrap up warm."

Chute 93

Julius Root always traveled in style. In this instance he had commandeered the Atlantean ambassador’s shuttle. All leather and gold. Seats softer than a gnome’s behind, and drag buffers that negated all but the most serious jolts.

Needless to say, the Atlantean ambassador hadn’t been all that thrilled about handing over the starter chip. But it was difficult to refuse the commander when his fingers were drumming a tattoo on the tri-barreled blaster strapped to his hip. So now the humans and their two elfin chaperones were climbing E93 in some considerable comfort.

Artemis helped himself to a bottle of still water from the chiller cabinet.

"This tastes unusual," he commented. "Not unpleasant, but different."

"Clean is the word you’re searching for," said Holly. "You wouldn’t believe how many filters we have to put it through to purge the Mud Man from it."

"No bickering, Captain Short," warned Root. "We’re on the same side, now. I want a smooth mission. Now suit up, all of you. We won’t last five minutes out there without protection."

Holly cracked open an overhead locker. "Fowl, front and center."

Artemis complied, a bemused smile twitching at his lips.

Holly pulled several cubic packages from the locker.

"What are you, about a six?"

Artemis shrugged. He wasn’t familiar with the People’s system of measurement.

"What? Artemis Fowl doesn’t know. I thought you were the world’s expert on the People. It was you who stole our Book last year, wasn’t it?"

Artemis unwrapped the package. It was a suit of some ultralight rubber polymer.

"Antiradiation," explained Holly. "Your cells will thank me in fifty years, if you’re still around."

Artemis pulled the suit over his clothes; it shrank to fit like a second skin.

"Clever material."

"Memory latex. Molds itself to your shape, within reason. One use only, unfortunately. Wear it and recycle it."

Butler clinked over. He was carrying so much fairy weaponry that Foaly had supplied him with a Moonbelt. The belt reduced the effective weight of its attachments to one fifth of the Earth norm.

"What about me?" asked Butler, nodding at the rad suits.

Holly frowned. "We don’t have anything that deformed. Latex can only go so far."

"Forget it. I’ve been in Russia before. It didn’t kill me."

"Not yet it didn’t. Give it time."

Butler shrugged. "What choice do I have?"

Holly smiled, and there was a nasty tinge to it.

"Oh, I didn’t say there wasn’t a choice."

She reached into the locker, pulling out a large spray can. And for some reason, that little can scared Butler more than a bunker full of missiles.

"Now, hold still," she said, aiming a gramophone-type nozzle at the bodyguard. "This may stink worse than a hermit dwarf, but at least your skin won’t glow in the dark."





CHAPTER 8




TO RUSSIA WITH GLOVES




Murmansk, Lenin Prospekt

Mikhael Vassikin was growing impatient. For over two years now, he’d been on baby-sitting duty. At Britva’s request. Not that it had actually been a request. The term request implied that you have a choice in the matter.

You did not argue with Britva. You did not even protest quietly. The menidzher, or manager, was from the old school, where his word was law.

Britva’s instructions had been simple: feed him, wash him, and if he doesn’t come out of the coma in another year, kill him, and dump the body in the Kola.

Two weeks before the deadline, the Irishman had bolted upright in his bed. He awoke screaming a name. That name was Angeline. Kamar got such a shock, he’d dropped the bottle of wine he’d been opening. The bottle smashed, piercing his Ferrucci loafers, cracking the big toenail. Toenails grow back, but Ferrucci loafers were hard to come by in the Arctic Circle. Mikhael had been forced to sit on his partner to stop him killing the hostage.

So now they were playing the waiting game. Kidnapping was an established business, and there were rules. First you sent the teaser note, or in this case, e-mail. Wait a few days to give the pigeon a chance to put together some funds, then hit him with the ransom demand.

They were locked in Mikhael’s apartment on Lenin Prospekt, waiting for the call from Britva. They didn’t even dare to go out for air. Not that there was much to see. Murmansk was one of those Russian cities that had been made by pouring concrete directly into a mold. The only time Lenin Prospekt looked good was when it was buried in snow.

Kamar emerged from the bedroom. His sharp features were stretched in disbelief.

"He wants caviar, can you believe it? I give him a nice bowl of stroganina and he wants caviar, the ungrateful Irlandskii."

Mikhael rolled his eyes. "I liked him better asleep."

Kamar nodded, spitting into the fireplace. "The sheets are too rough, he says. He’s lucky I don’t wrap him in a sack, and roll him into the bay."

Then the phone rang, interrupting Vassikin’s empty threats.

"This is it, my friend," he said, clapping Kamar on the shoulder. "We are on our way."

Vassikin picked up the phone.

"Yes?"

"It’s me," said a voice, made tinny by old wiring.

"Mister Brit . . ."

"Shut up, idiot! Never use my name!"

Mikhael swallowed. The Menidzher didn’t like to be connected to his various businesses. That meant no paperwork and no mention of his name where it could be recorded. It was his custom to make his calls while driving around the city, so his location could not be triangulated.

"I’m sorry, boss."

"You should be," continued the Mafiya kingpin. "Now listen and don’t talk. You have nothing to contribute."

Vassikin covered the handset.

"Everything’s fine," he whispered, giving Kamar the thumbs up. "We’re doing a great job."

"The Fowls are a clever outfit," continued Britva."And I have no doubt they are concentrating on tracing the last e-mail."

"But I spiked the last—"

"What did I tell you?"

"You said not to talk, Mister Brit—Sir."

"That’s right. So send the ransom message and then move Fowl to the drop point."

Mikhael paled. "The drop point?"

"Yes, the drop point. No one will be looking for you there, I guarantee it."

"But—"

"No more talking! Get yourself a spine, man. It’s only for a couple of days. So you might lose a year off your life, it won’t kill you."

Vassikin’s brain churned, searching for an excuse. Nothing came.

"Okay, boss. Whatever you say."

"That’s right. Now listen to me. This is your big chance. Do this right, and you move up a couple of steps in the organization."

Vassikin grinned. A life of champagne and expensive cars beckoned.

"If this man really is young Fowl’s father, the boy will pay up. When you get the money, dump them both in the Kola. I don’t want any survivors to start a vendetta. Call me if there’s any trouble."

"Okay, boss."

"Oh, and one more thing."

"Yes?"

"Don’t call me."

The line went dead. Vassikin was left staring at the handset as though it were a handful of plague virus.

"Well?" asked Kamar.

"We are to send the second message."

A broad grin split Kamar’s face.

"Excellent. At last this thing is nearly over."

"Then we are to move the package to the drop zone."

The broad grin disappeared like a fox down a hole.

"What? Now?"

"Yes. Now."

Kamar paced the tiny living room. "That is crazy. Completely insane. Fowl cannot be here for a couple of days at the earliest. There’s no need for us to spend two days breathing in that poison. What is the reasoning?"

Mikhael extended the phone. "You tell him. I’m sure the Menidzher will appreciate being told he is a madman."

Kamar sank to the threadbare sofa, dropping his head into his hands.

"Will this thing never end?"

His partner fired up their ancient sixteen-megabyte hard drive.

"I don’t know for certain," he said, sending the prepared message. "But I do know what will happen if we don’t do what Britva says."

Kamar sighed. "I think I’ll go shout at the prisoner for a while."

"Will that help?"

"It won’t," admitted Kamar. "But it will make me feel better."

E93, Arctic Shuttleport

The Arctic Station had never been high on the fairy tourist list. Sure, icebergs and polar bears were pretty, but nothing was worth saturating your lungs with irradiated air.

Holly docked the shuttle in the only serviceable bay.

The terminal itself resembled nothing more than a deserted warehouse. Static conveyor belts snaked along the floor, and low-level heating pipes rattled with insect life.

Holly handed out human overcoats and gloves from an ancient locker.

"Wrap up, Mud Boys. It’s cold outside."

Artemis did not need to be told. The terminal’s solar batteries had long since shut down, and the ice’s grip had cracked the walls like a nut in a vice.

Holly tossed Butler his coat from a distance.

"You know something, Butler, you stink."

The manservant growled. "You and your radiation gel. I think my skin’s changed color."

"Don’t worry about it. Fifty years and it’ll wash right off."

Butler buttoned a Cossack greatcoat to his neck.

"I don’t know why you’re getting all wrapped up. You’ve got the fancy suits."

"The coats are camouflage," explained Holly, smearing rad gel on her face and neck. "If we shield, the vibration makes the suits useless. Might as well dip your bones in a reactor core. So for tonight only, we’re all humans."

Artemis frowned. If the fairies couldn’t shield, it would make rescuing his father all the more difficult. His evolving plan would have to be adjusted.

"Less of the chat," growled Root, pulling a bearskin hat over his pointed ears. "We move out in five. I want everybody armed and dangerous. Even you, Fowl, if your little wrists can support a weapon."

Artemis selected a fairy handgun from the shuttle’s arsenal. He jacked the battery into its slot, flicking the setting up to three.

"Don’t worry about me, Commander. I’ve been practicing. We have quite a stash of LEP weaponry at the manor."

Root’s complexion cranked up one more notch.

"Well, there’s a big difference between stunning a cardboard cutout and a real person."

Artemis smiled his vampire smile. "If everything proceeds according to plan, there will be no need for weapons. The first stage is simplicity itself; we set up a surveillance post near Vassikin’s apartment. When the opportunity arises, Butler will snatch our Russian friend and the five of us can have a little chat. I’m sure that he will tell us everything we need to know under the influence of your mesmer. Then, it will be a simple matter to stun any guards and rescue my father."

Root pulled a heavy scarf over his mouth. "And what if things don’t go according to plan?"

Artemis’s eyes were cold and determined.

"Then, Commander, we will have to improvise."

Holly felt a shiver rattle around her stomach. And it was nothing to do with the climate.

The terminal was buried fifty feet below an ice pack. They took the courtesy elevator to the surface, and the party emerged into the Arctic night looking for all the world like an adult and three children. Albeit three children with inhuman weaponry clanking under every loose fold of cloth.

Holly checked the GPS locator on her wrist.

"We’re in the Rosta district, Commander. Twenty klicks north of Murmansk."

"What’s Foaly got on the weather? I don’t want to be caught in the middle of a blizzard twenty miles from our destination."

"No luck. I can’t get a line. Magma flares must still be up."

"D’Arvit," swore Root. "Well, I suppose we’ll have to take our chances on foot. Butler you’re the expert here, you take point. Captain Short, bring up the rear. Feel free to boot any human backside if it lags behind."

Holly winked at Artemis. "No need to tell me twice, sir."

"I’ll bet there isn’t," grunted Root, with only the barest hint of a smile playing about his lips.

The motley band trudged southeast by moonlight until they reached the railway line. Walking along the sleepers was the only way they could be safe from drifts and suck holes. Progress was slow. A northerly wind snaked through every pore in their clothing, and the cold attacked any exposed skin like a million electric darts.

There was little conversation. The Arctic had that effect on people, even if three of them were wearing coil-heated suits.

Holly broke the silence. Something had been nagging at her for some time.

"Tell me something, Fowl," she said from behind the boy. "Your father. Is he like you?"

Artemis’s step faltered for an instant. "That’s a strange question. Why do you ask?"

"Well, you’re no friend to the People. What if the man we’re trying to rescue is the man who will destroy us?"

There was silence for a long time, except for the chattering of teeth. Holly saw Artemis’s chin drop onto his chest.

"You have no cause to be alarmed, Captain. My father, though some of his ventures were undoubtedly illegal, was . . . is . . . a noble man. The idea of harming another creature would be repugnant to him."

Holly tugged her boot from eight inches of snow. "So, what happened to you?"

Artemis’s breath bloomed in icy clouds over his shoulder. "I . . . I made a mistake."

Holly squinted at the back of the human’s head. Was this actual sincerity from Artemis Fowl? It was hard to believe. Even more surprising was the fact that she didn’t know how to react—to extend the hand of forgiveness, or the boot of retribution. Eventually she decided to reserve judgment. For the moment.

They passed into a ravine, worn smooth by the whistling wind. Butler didn’t like it. His soldier’s sense was beating a tattoo on the inside of his skull. He raised a clenched fist.

Root double his pace to catch up.

"Trouble?"

Butler squinted into the snow field, searching for footprints. "Maybe. Nice spot for a surprise attack."

"Maybe. If anyone knew we were coming."

"Is that possible? Could someone know?"

Root snorted, breath forming clouds in the air before him.

"Impossible. The chute is totally isolated, and LEP security is the tightest on the planet."

And that was when the goblin hit squad soared over the ridge.

Butler grabbed Artemis by the collar, unceremoniously flinging him into a drift. His other hand was already drawing his weapon.

"Keep your head down, Artemis. Time for me to earn my salary."

Artemis would have responded testily, had his head not been under three feet of snow.

There were four goblins flying in loose formation, dark against the starlit sky. They quickly rose to a thousand feet, making no attempt to conceal their presence. They neither attacked nor fled, simply hovered overhead.

"Goblins," grunted Root, pulling a Farshoot neutrino rifle into his shoulder. "Too stupid to live. All they had to do was pick us off."

Butler picked a spot, spreading his legs for steadiness.

"Do we wait until we see the whites of their eyes, Commander?"

"Goblin eyes don’t have whites," responded Root. "But even so, holster your weapon. Captain Short and I will stun them. No need for anyone to die."

Butler slid the Sig Sauer into its pouch beneath his arm. It was next to useless at that range, anyway. It would be interesting to see how Holly and Root handled themselves in a firefight. After all, Artemis’s life was pretty much in their hands. Not to mention his own.

Butler glanced sideways. Holly and the Commander were pumping the triggers of various weapons. Without any result. Their weapons were as dead as mice in a snake pit.

"I don’t understand it," muttered Root. "I checked these myself."

Artemis, naturally, was first to figure it out. He shook the snow from his hair.

"Sabotage," he proclaimed tossing aside the useless fairy handgun. "There is no other alternative. This is why the B’wa Kell need softnose weapons, because they have somehow disrupted fairy lasers."

But the commander was not listening, and neither was Butler. This was no time for clever deductions, this was a time for action. They were sitting ducks out here. Dark against the pale Arctic glow. This theory was confirmed when several softnose laser bursts bored hissing holes in the snow at their feet.

Holly activated her helmet Optix, zooming in on the enemy.

"It looks like one of them has a softnose laser, sir. Something with a long barrel."

"We need cover. Fast!"

Butler nodded. "Look. An overhang. Under the ridge."

The manservant grabbed his charge by the collar, hoisting him aloft as easily as a child would lift a kitten. They struggled through the snow to the shelter of the overhang. Maybe a million years ago the ice had melted sufficiently for a layer of ice to slump slightly, then freeze up again. The resulting wrinkle had somehow lasted through the ages and now could possibly save their lives.

They dived underneath the lip, wriggling backward against wall of ice. The icy canopy was easily thick enough to withstand gunfire from any conventional weapon.

Butler shielded Artemis with his body, risking an upward glance.

"Too far. I can’t make them out. Holly?"

Captain Short poked her head from under the frozen ledge, her Optix zoomed into focus.

"Well, what are they up to?"

Holly waited a beat, until the figures sharpened.

"Funny thing," she commented. "They’re all firing now, but ..."

"But what, Captain?"

Holly tapped her helmet to make sure the lenses were working.

"Maybe I’m getting some Optix distortion, sir, but it looks like they’re missing on purpose, shooting way over our heads."

Butler felt the blood pounding in his brain.

"It’s a trap!" he roared, reaching behind him to grab Artemis. "Everybody out! Everybody out!"

And that was when the goblin charges sent fifty tons of rock, ice, and snow tumbling to earth.

They nearly made it. Of course nearly never won a bucket of squid at gnommish roulette. If it hadn’t been for Butler, not one of the group would have survived. Something happened to him. An inexplicable surge of strength, not unlike the energy bursts that allow mothers to lift fallen trees off their children. The manservant grabbed Artemis and Holly, spinning them forward like stones across a pond. It wasn’t a very dignified way to travel, but it certainly beat having your bones pulverized by falling ice.

For the second time in so many minutes, Artemis landed nose first in a snowdrift. Behind him Butler and Root were scrabbling from beneath the ledge, boots slipping on the icy surface. The air was rent by avalanche thunder, and the packed ice beneath them heaved and split. Thick chunks of rock and ice speared the cave’s opening like bars. Butler and Root were trapped.

Holly was on her feet, racing toward her commander. But what could she do? She threw herself back underneath the ledge.

"Stay back, Captain," said Root’s voice in her ear. "That’s an order!"

"Commander," Holly breathed. "You’re alive."

"Somehow," came the reply. "Butler is unconscious and we’re pinned down. The ledge is on the point of collaps-ing. The only thing holding it is the debris. If we brush that aside to get out . .."

They were alive, then, at least. Trapped but alive. A plan, they needed a plan. Holly found herself strangely calm. This was one of the qualities that made her such an excellent field agent. In times of excessive stress, Captain Short had the ability to seize upon a course of action. Often the only viable course. In the combat simulation for her captain’s exam, Holly had defeated insurmountable virtual enemies by blasting the projector. Technically she had defeated all her enemies, so the panel had to pass her.

Holly spoke into her helmet mike.

"Commander, undo Butler’s Moonbelt and strap yourselves on. I’m going to haul you both out of there."

"Roger, Holly. Do you need a piton?"

"If you can get one out to me."

"Standby."

A piton dart jetted through a gap in the icy bars, landing a foot from Holly’s boots. The dart trailed a length of fine cord.

Holly snapped the piton into the cord receptacle on her own belt, making sure there were no kinks in the line. Meanwhile Artemis had dragged himself from the drift.

"This plan is patently ridiculous," he said, brushing the snow from his sleeves. "You cannot hope to drag their combined weight with sufficient velocity to both break the icicles and avoid being crushed."

"I’m not going to drag them," snapped Holly.

"Well, then, what is?"

Captain Short pointed down the track. There was a green train winding its way toward them.

"That is," she said.

There were three goblins left. Their names were D’Nall, Aymon, and Nyle. Three rookies vying for the recently vacated lieutenant’s spot. Lieutenant Poll had handed in his resignation when he’d strayed too close to the avalanche and been swatted by a one-ton pane of transparent ice.

They hovered at a thousand feet, well out of range. Of course, they weren’t out of fairy weapon range, but LEP weapons weren’t operational at the moment. Koboi Laboratories upgrades had seen to that.

"That was some hole in Lieutenant Poll," whistled Aymon. "I could see right through ’im. An’ I don’t mean that like he was a bad liar."

Goblins didn’t get too attached to each other. Considering the amount of backstabbing, backbiting, and general vindictiveness that went on in the B’wa Kell, it didn’t pay to make any special friends.

"What you think?" asked D’Nall, the handsome one, relatively speaking. "Maybe one of you guys should take a spin down there."

Aymon snorted."Sure thing. We go down and get sparked by the big one. Just how dumb do you think we are?"

"The big one is out of the picture. I sparked him myself. Sweet shot."

"My shot set off the avalanche," objected Nyle. The baby of the gang. "You’re always claimin’ my kills."

"What kills? The only thing you ever killed was a stink worm. And that was an accident."

"Rubbish," sulked Nyle. "I meant to kill that worm. He was buggin’ me."

Aymon swooped between the two. "All right. Keep your scales on the pair of you. All we gotta do is throw a few rounds into the survivors from up here."

"Nice plan, genius," sneered D’Nall. "Except it won’t work."

"And why not?"

D’Nall pointed below with a manicured nail.

"Because they’re boarding that train."

Four green carriages were winding in from the north, dragged along by an ancient diesel engine. A maelstrom of snow flurries coiled in its wake. Salvation, thought Holly. Or perhaps not. For some reason the mere sight of the clanking locomotive set her stomach bubbling with acid. Still, she was in no position to be choosy.

"It’s the Mayak Chemical train," said Artemis.

Holly glanced over her shoulder. Artemis seemed even paler than usual.

"The what?"

"Environmentalists worldwide call it the Green Machine, something of an irony. It transports spent uranium and plutonium assemblies to the Mayak Chemical Combine for recycling. One driver locked up in the engine. No guards. Fully loaded, this thing is hotter than a nuclear submarine."

"And you know about this because . . ."

Artemis shrugged. "I like to keep track of these things. After all, radiation is the world’s problem."

Holly could feel it now. Uranium tendrils eating through the rad-gel on her cheeks. That train was poison. But it was her only chance of getting the commander out alive.

"This just keeps getting better and better," Holly muttered.

The train was closer. Obviously. Motoring along at about ten klicks. No problem for Holly on her own, but with two men down and one next-to-useless Mud Boy, it was going to take quite a feat to get on board that locomotive.

Holly spared a second to check on the goblins. They were holding steady at a thousand feet. Goblins were no good at improvisation. This train was unexpected, it would take them at least a minute to work out a new strategy. The big hole in their fallen comrade might give them further pause for thought.

Holly could feel the radiation emanating from the carriages, burning through the tiniest gap in the radiation gel, prickling her eyeballs. It was only a matter of time before her magic ran out. After that, she was living on borrowed time.

No time to think about that now. Her priority was the commander. She had to get him out of here alive. If the B’wa Kell were brazen enough to mount an operation against the LEP, there was obviously something pretty big going on underground. Whatever it was, Julius Root would be needed to spearhead the counterattack. She turned toward Artemis.

"Okay, Mud Boy. We’ve got one shot at this. Grab onto whatever you can."

Artemis couldn’t hide an apprehensive shiver.

"Don’t be afraid, Artemis. You can make it."

Artemis bristled. "It’s cold, fairy. Humans shiver in the cold."

"That’s the spirit," said the LEP captain, and she began to run. The piton wire played out behind her like a harpoon cable. Though it had the approximate grade of fishing line, the cable could easily suspend two struggling elephants. Artemis raced after her as fast as his loafered feet could manage.

They ran parallel to the tracks, feet crunching through the snow. Behind them the train grew closer, pushing a buffer of air before it.

Artemis struggled to keep up. This was not for him. Running and sweating. Combat for heaven’s sake. He was no soldier. He was a planner. A mastermind. The hurlyburly of actual conflict was best left to Butler and people like him. But his manservant wasn’t here to take care of the physical tasks this time. And he never would be again, if they didn’t manage to board this train.

Artemis’s breath came short, crystallizing in front of his face, blurring his vision. The train had drawn level now, steel wheels spewing ice and sparks into the air.

"Second carriage," panted Holly. "There’s a runner. Mind your footing."

Runner? Artemis glanced behind. The second carriage was coming up fast. But the noise was blurring his vision. Was that possible? It was terrific. Unbearable. There, below the steel doors. A narrow board. Wide enough to stand on. Barely.

Holly alighted easily, flattening herself against the carriage wall. She made it look so effortless. A simple skip, and she was safe from those pulverizing wheels.

"Come on, Fowl," shouted Holly. "Jump."

Artemis tried, he really did. But the toe of his loafer snagged on a sleeper. He stumbled forward, pinwheeling for balance. A painful death came rushing up to meet him.

"Two left feet," muttered Holly, grabbing her least favorite Mud Boy by the collar. Momentum swung Artemis forward, slamming him into the door.

The piton cord was slapping against the carriage. Only seconds left before Holly departed from the train as quickly as she’d arrived. The LEP captain searched for a strongpoint to anchor herself. Root and Butler’s weight may have been reduced, but the jerk, when it came, would be more than sufficient to drag her from the locomotive. And if that happened, it was all over.

Holly hooked one arm through an external rung, wrapping slim fingers around her wrist. She noticed magical sparks playing over a rip in her suit. They were counteracting the radiation damage. How much longer could her magic last under these conditions? Constant healing really took it out of a girl. She needed to complete the power-restoring Ritual. And the sooner the better.

Holly was about to unclip the cable and attach it to one of the rungs when it snapped taut, pulling her legs from beneath her. She held on grimly to the rung, fingernails digging into her own skin. On reflection, this plan needed a bit of work. Time seemed to stretch, elastic as the cord, and for a moment, Holly thought her elbow would pop right out of its socket. Then the ice gave, and Root and Butler were twanged out of their icy tomb like bolts from a crossbow.

They slapped against the side of the train, their reduced weight keeping them aloft, for now. But it was only a matter of time before what little gravity they had pushed them under the steel wheels.

Artemis latched on to the rung beside her.

"What can I do?"

She nodded at a shoulder pocket.

"In there. A small vial. Take it out."

Artemis ripped open the Velcro flap, pulling out a tiny spray bottle.

"Okay. Got it."

"Good. It’s up to you now, Fowl. Up and over."

Artemis’s mouth dropped open. "Up and . . ."

"Yes. It’s our only hope. We have to get this door open to reel in Butler and the Commander. There’s a bend in the track two klicks back. If this train slows down even one revolution, they’re gone."

Artemis nodded. "The vial?"

"Acid. For the lock. The mechanism is on the inside. Cover your face and squeeze. Give it the whole tube. Don’t get any on yourself."

It was a long conversation under the circumstances. Especially since every second was a vital one. Artemis did not waste another one on good-byes.

He dragged himself to the next rung, keeping the length of his body pressed close to the carriage. The wind was whipping along the length of the train, tiny motes of ice in every gust. They stung like bees. Nevertheless Artemis pulled his gloves off with chattering teeth. Better frostbite than being crushed beneath the wheels.

Upward. One rung at a time, until his head poked above the carriage. Every shred of shelter was now gone. The air pounded his forehead, forcing itself down his throat. Artemis squinted through the blizzard, along the carriage’s roof. There! In the center. A skylight. Across a desert of steel, blasted smooth as glass by the elements. Not a handhold within fifteen feet. The strength of a rhino would be of no use here, Artemis decided. At last an opportunity to use his brain. Kinetics and momentum. Simple enough, in theory.

Keeping to the front rim of the carriage, Artemis inched onto the roof. The wind wormed beneath his legs rising them nearly an inch from the deck, threatening to float him off the train.

Artemis curled his fingers around the rim. These were not gripping fingers. Artemis hadn’t gripped anything bigger than his cell phone in several months. If you wanted someone to type Paradise Lost in under twenty minutes, then Artemis was your man. But as for hanging onto carriage roofs in a blizzard, dead loss. Which, fortunately, was all part of the plan.

A millisecond before his finger joints parted company, Artemis let go. The slipstream shot him straight into the skylight’s metal housing.

Perfect, he would have grunted had there been a cubic centimeter of air in his lungs. But even if he had said it, the wind would have snatched away any words before his own ears heard them. He had moments now before the wind dug its fingers beneath his torso flipping him onto the icy steppe. Cannon fodder for the goblins.

Artemis fumbled the acid vial from his pocket, snapping the top between his teeth. A fleck of the acid flew past his eye. No time to worry about that now. No time for anything.

The skylight was secured by a thick padlock. Artemis dribbled two drops into the keyhole. All he could spare. It would have to be enough.

The effect was immediate. The acid ate through the metal like lava through ice. Fairy technology. Best under the world.

The padlock pinged open, exposing the hatch to the wind’s power. The hatch flipped upward, and Artemis tumbled through onto a pallet of barrels. Not exactly the picture of a gallant rescuer.

The train’s motion shook him from the barrels. Artemis landed face up, gazing at the triple-triangle symbol for radiation stamped on the side of each container. At least the barrels were sealed, though rust seemed to have taken hold on quite a few.

Artemis rolled across the slatted floor, clambering to his knees alongside the door. Was Captain Short still anchored there, or was he alone now? For the first time in his life. Truly alone.

"Fowl! Open the door, you pasty-faced mud weasel!"

Ah well. Not alone, then.

Covering his face with a forearm, Artemis drenched the carriage’s triple bolt with fairy acid. The steel lock melted instantly, dripping to the floor like a stream of mercury. Artemis dragged the sliding door back.

Holly was hanging on grimly, her face steaming where radiation was eating through the gel. Artemis grabbed her waistband.

"On three?"

Holly nodded. No more energy for speech.

Artemis flexed his digits. Fingers, don’t fail me now. If he ever got out of this, he would buy one of those ridiculous home gymnasiums advertised on the shopping channels.

"One."

The bend was coming. He could see it out of the corner of his eye. The train would slow down or derail itself.

"Two."

Captain Short’s strength was almost spent. The wind rippled her frame like a wind sock.

"Three!"

Artemis pulled with all the strength in his thin arms. Holly closed her eyes and let go, unable to believe she was trusting her life to this Mud Boy.

Artemis knew a little something about physics. He timed his count to take advantage of swing, momentum, and the train’s own forward motion. But nature always throws something into the mix that can’t be anticipated.

In this case the something was a slight gap between two sections of the track. Not enough to derail a locomotive, but certainly enough to cause a bump.

This bump sent the carriage door crashing into its frame like a five-ton guillotine. But it looked as if Holly had made it. Artemis couldn’t really tell because she had crashed into him, sending them both careering into the wooden siding. But she seemed to be intact, from what he could see. At least her head was still attached to her neck, which was good. But she did seem to be unconscious. Probably trauma.

Meanwhile, Commander Root had just activated his piton-cord winch when he received a most unexpected poke in the eye.

Artemis knew that he was going to pass out too. He could tell by the darkness eating at the corners of his vision.

He slipped sideways, landing on Holly’s chest. This had more severe repercussions than you might think. Because Holly was also unconscious, her magic was on autopilot. And unsupervised magic flows like electricity. Artemis’s face made contact with the fairy’s left hand, diverting the flow of blue sparks. And while this was good for him, it was most definitely bad for her. Because although Artemis didn’t know it, Holly needed every spark of magic she could muster. Not all of her had made it inside the train.

The goblin D’Nall removed a small rectangular mirror from his tunic, and checked to see that his scales were smooth.

"These Koboi wings are great. You think we’ll be allowed keep ’em?"

Aymon scowled. Not that you’d notice. Goblin lizard ancestry meant that facial movement was pretty limited. "Quiet, you hot-blooded fool!"

Hot-blooded. That was a pretty serious insult for one of the B’wa Kell.

D’Nall bristled. "Be careful, friend, or I’ll tear that forked tongue right out of your head."

"We won’t have a tongue between us if those elves escape!" retorted Aymon.

It was true. The generals did not take disappointment well.

"So what do we do? I got the looks in this outfit. That must make you the brains."

"We shoot at the train," interjected Nyle. "Simple."

D’Nall adjusted his Koboi DoubleDex, hovering across to the squad’s junior member.

"Idiot," he snapped, administering a swift slap to the head. "That thing is radioactive, can’t you smell it? One stray burst and we’ll all be ash floating on the breeze."

"Good point," admitted Nyle. "You’re not as stupid as you look."

"Thank you."

"Welcome."

Aymon throttled down, descending to five hundred feet. It was so tempting. One tightly focused burst to take out the elf clinging to the carriage, another to dispatch the human on the roof. But he couldn’t risk it. One degree off target, and he’d sucked his last stink-worm spaghetti.

"Okay," he announced into his helmet mike. "Here’s the plan. With all the radiation in that carriage, chances are the targets will be dead in minutes. We follow the train for a while just to make sure. Then we go back and tell the general we saw the bodies."

D’Nall buzzed down beside him. "And do we see the bodies?"

Aymon groaned. "Of course not, you fool! Do you want your eyeballs to dry up and fall out?"

"Duh."

"Exactly. So are we clear?"

"Crystal," said Nyle, drawing his softnose Redboy handgun. He shot his comrades from behind. Close range, point blank. They never had a chance. He followed their bodies to earth on full magnification. The snow would cover them in minutes. Nobody would be stumbling over those particular corpses until the polar caps melted.

Nyle holstered his weapon, punching in the coordinates for the shuttle terminal on his flight computer. If you studied his reptilian face carefully, it was just possible to make out a grin. There was a new lieutenant in town.





CHAPTER 9




NO SAFE HAVEN




Operations Booth, Police Plaza

Foaly was sitting in front of the LEP mainframe waiting for the results of his latest search. Extensive laser brushing on the goblin shuttle had revealed one complete and one partial thumbprint. The complete print was his own. Easily explicable, as Foaly personally inspected all retired shuttle parts. The partial print could well belong to their traitor. Not enough to identify the fairy who’d been running LEP technology to the B’wa Kell, but certainly enough to eliminate the innocent. Cross-reference the remaining names with everybody who had shuttle-part access, and the list got considerably shorter. Foaly twitched his tail contentedly. Genius. No point in being humble about it.

At the moment, the computer was crunching through personnel files with the partial print. All Foaly could do was twiddle his thumbs and wait for contact with the surface team. The magma flares were still up. Very unusual. Unusual and coincidental.

Foaly’s suspicious train of thought was interrupted by a familiar voice.

"Search complete," said the computer, in Foaly’s own tones—a little vanity. "Three hundred and forty-six eliminated. Forty possibles remaining."

Forty. Not bad. They could easily be interviewed. Another opportunity to use the Retimager. But there was another way to narrow the field.

"Computer, cross-reference possibles with level-three clearance personnel." Level-three clearance would include everybody with access to the recycling smelters.

"Referencing."

Cudgeon knocked on the booth’s security glass. Now, technically Cudgeon shouldn’t be allowed in Ops, but Foaly buzzed him through. He could never resist having a crack at the ex-commander. Cudgeon had been demoted to lieutenant following a disastrous attempt to replace Root as Recon head honcho. If it hadn’t been for his family’s considerable political clout, he would have been booted off the force altogether. All in all, he might have been better off in some other line of work. At least he wouldn’t have had to suffer Foaly’s constant teasing.

"I have some e-forms for you to initial," said the lieutenant, avoiding eye contact.

"No problem, Commander," chuckled the centaur.

"How’s the plotting going? Any revolutions planned for this afternoon?"

"Just sign the forms please," said Cudgeon, holding out a digi-pen. His hand was shaking.

Amazing, thought Foaly. This broken-down shell of an elf was once on the LEP fast track.

"No, but seriously, Cudgeon. You’re doing a great job on the form-signing thing."

Cudgeon’s eyes narrowed in suspicion. "Thank you, sir."

A grin tugged at the corner of Foaly’s mouth. "You’re welcome. No need to get a swelled head."

Cudgeon’s hand flew to his misshapen forehead. Still a touch of the old vanity left.

"Oops. Sore subject. Sorry about that."

There was a spark in the corner of Cudgeon’s eye. A spark that should have warned Foaly. But he was distracted by a beep from the computer.

"List complete."

"Excuse me for a moment, Commander. Important business. Computer stuff—you wouldn’t understand it."

Foaly turned to the plasma screen. The lieutenant would just have to wait for his signature. It was probably just an order for shuttle parts anyway.

The penny dropped. A big penny with a clang louder than a dwarf’s underpants hitting a wall. Shuttle parts. An inside job. Someone with a grudge to settle. A line of sweat filled each groove on Foaly’s forehead. It was so obvious.

He looked at the plasma screen for confirmation of what he already knew. There were only two names. The first, Bom Arbles, could be eliminated immediately. The Retrieval officer had been killed in a core-diving accident. The second name pulsed gently. Lieutenant Briar Cudgeon. Demoted to recycling crew around the time Holly retired that starboard booster. It all fit.

Foaly knew that if he didn’t acknowledge the message in ten seconds, the computer would read the name aloud. He casually punched the delete button.

"You know, Briar," he croaked. "All those jibes about your head problem. It’s all in fun. My way of being sympathetic. Actually, I have some ointment . . ."

Something cold and metallic pressed against the back of the centaur’s head. Foaly had seen too many action movies not to know what it was.

"Save your ointment, donkey boy," said Cudgeon’s voice in his ear. "I have a feeling you’ll be developing some head problems of your own."

The Mayak Chemical Train, Northern Russia

The first thing Artemis felt was a rhythmical knocking, jarring along the length of his spine. I’m at the spa in Blackrock, he thought. Irina is massaging my back. Just what my system needs, especially after all that horseplay on that train . . . The train!

Obviously they were still aboard the Mayak train. The jerking motion was actually the carriage jolting over the track joins. Artemis forced his eyes open, expecting gargantuan doses of stiffness and pain. But instead, he realized, he felt fine. More than fine. Great, in fact. It must be magic. Holly must have healed his various cuts and bruises while he was unconscious.

Nobody else was feeling quite so chipper. Especially Captain Short, who was still unconscious. Root was draping a large coat over his fallen officer.

"Oh, you’re awake, are you?" he said, without so much as a glance at Artemis. "I don’t know how you can sleep at all after what you’ve just done."

"Done? But I saved you—at least, I helped."

"You helped, all right, Fowl. You helped yourself to the last of Holly’s magic while she was unconscious."

Artemis groaned. It must have happened when they fell. Somehow her magic had been diverted.

"I see what must have happened. It was an . . ."

Root raised a warning finger. "Don’t say it. The great Artemis Fowl doesn’t do anything by accident."

Artemis fought against the train’s motion, climbing to his knees.

"It can’t be anything serious. Just exhaustion, surely."

And suddenly Root’s face was an inch from his own, his complexion rosy enough to generate heat.

"Nothing serious!" spluttered the commander, barely able to get the words out past his rage. "Nothing serious! She lost her trigger finger! The door cut it clean off. Her career is over. And because of you, Holly barely had enough magic to stop the bleeding. She’s drained of power now. Empty."

"She lost a finger?" echoed Artemis numbly.

"Not lost, exactly," said the commander, waving the severed digit. "It poked me in the eye on the way past." His eye was already beginning to blacken.

"If we go back now, surely your surgeons can graft it on?"

Root shook his head. "If we could go back now. I have a feeling that the situation underground is a lot different than when we left. If the goblins sent a hit team to get us, you can bet something big is going on underground."

Artemis was shocked. Holly had saved all their lives, and this was how he had repaid her. While it was true that he was not directly to blame for the injury, it had been inflicted while trying to save his father. There was a debt to be paid here.

"How long?" he snapped.

"What?"

"How long ago did it happen?"

"I don’t know. A minute."

"Then there’s still time."

The commander sat up. "Time for what?"

"We can still save the finger."

Root rubbed a welt of fresh scar tissue on his shoulder, a reminder of his trip along the side of the train. "With what? I barely have enough power left for the mesmer."

Artemis closed his eyes. Concentrating.

"What about the Ritual? There must be a way."

All the People’s magic came from the earth. In order to top up their powers, they had to periodically complete the Ritual.

"How can we complete the Ritual here?"

Artemis racked his brain. He had committed large sections of the fairy Book to memory in preparation for the previous year’s kidnapping operation.

From the earth thy power flows,

Given through courtesy, so thanks are owed.

Pluck thou the magick seed,

Where full moon, ancient oak, and twisted water meet.

And bury it far from where it was found,

So return your gift into the ground.

He scrambled across the flooring and began patting down Holly’s jumpsuit. Root’s heart nearly shut down there and then.

"In heaven’s name, Mud Boy, what are you doing?"

Artemis didn’t even look up. "Last year, Holly escaped because she had an acorn."

Through some miracle, the commander managed to restrain himself.

"Five seconds, Fowl. Talk fast."

"An officer like Holly wouldn’t forget something like that. I’d be willing to bet . . ."

Root sighed. "It’s a good idea, Mud Boy. But the acorns have to be freshly picked. If it hadn’t been for the time stop, that seed mightn’t have worked. You’ve got a couple of days, tops. I know Foaly and Holly put together some proposal for a sealed acorn unit, but the Council rejected it. Heresy apparently."

It was a long speech for the commander. He wasn’t used to explaining himself. But a part of him was hoping. Maybe, just maybe. Holly had never been averse to bending a few rules.

Artemis unzipped Captain Short’s tunic. There were two tiny items on the gold chain around her neck. Her copy of the Book, the fairy bible. Artemis knew that it would combust if he tried to touch it without Holly’s permission. But there was another item. A small Plexiglas sphere filled with earth.

"That’s against regulations," said Root, not sounding too upset.

Holly stirred, half emerging from her stupor.

"Hey, Commander. What happened to your eye?"

Artemis ignored her, cracking the tiny sphere against the carriage floor. Earth and a small acorn tumbled into his palm.

"Now all we need to do is bury it."

The commander slung Holly over his shoulder. Artemis tried not to look at the space where her index finger used to be.

"Then it’s time to get off this train."

Artemis glanced at the Arctic landscape whipping past outside the carriage. Getting off the train wasn’t as easy as the commander made it sound.

Butler dropped nimbly through the overhead hatch, where he’d been keeping an eye on the goblin hit squad. "Nice to see you’re so limber,"commented Artemis dryly. The manservant smile."Good to see you, too, Artemis." "Well? What did you see up there?" said Root, interrupting the reunion. Butler placed a hand on his young master’s shoulders. They could talk later.

"The goblins are gone. Funny thing. Two of them dropped low for reconnaissance, then the other one shot them in the back."

Root nodded. "Power play. Goblins are their own worst enemies. But right now, we’ve got to get off this train." "There’s another bend coming up in about half a klick," said Butler. "That’s our best chance." "So, how do we disembark?" asked Artemis. Butler grinned. "Disembark is a pretty gentle term for

what I have in mind." Artemis groaned. More running and jumping.

Operations Booth

Foaly’s brain was bubbling like a sea slug in a deep-fat fryer. He still had options, providing Cudgeon didn’t actually shoot him. One shot and it was all over. Centaurs didn’t have magic. Not a drop. They got by on brains alone. That and their ability to trample their enemies underfoot. But Foaly had a feeling that Briar wouldn’t plug him just yet. Too busy gloating.

"Hey, Foaly," said the lieutenant. "Why don’t you go for the intercom? See what happens."

Foaly could guess what would happen.

"Don’t worry, Briar. No sudden moves."

Cudgeon laughed, and he sounded genuinely happy.

"Briar? First-name terms now is it? You mustn’t realize how much trouble you’re in."

Foaly was starting to realize just that. Beyond the tinted glass, LEP techies were beavering away trying to track down the mole, oblivious to the drama being played out not two yards away. He could see and hear them, but it was one-way surveillance.

The centaur only had himself to blame. He had insisted that the Operations Booth be constructed to his own paranoid standards. A titanium cube with blastproof windows. The entire room was wireless, without even a fiber-optic cable to connect Operations to the outside world.

Totally impregnable. Unless of course you opened the door to throw a few insults at an old enemy. Foaly groaned. His mother had always said that his smart mouth would get him into trouble. But all was not lost. He still had a few tricks up his sleeve. A plasma floor for instance.

"So what’s this all about, Cudgeon?" asked the Centaur, drawing his hooves off the tiles. "And please don’t say, world domination."

Cudgeon continued to smile. This was his moment.

"Not immediately. The Lower Elements will suffice for now."

"But why?"

Cudgeon’s eyes were tinged with madness. "Why? You have the gall to ask me why? I was the the Council’s golden boy! In fifty years I would have been chairman! And then along comes the Artemis Fowl affair. In one short day all my hopes are dashed. I end up deformed and demoted! And it was all because of you, Foaly. You and Root! So the only way to get my life back on track is to discredit both of you. You will be blamed for the goblin attacks, and Julius will be dead and dishonored. And as an added bonus, I even get Artemis Fowl. It’s as close to perfect as I could have hoped for."

Foaly snorted. "Do you really think you can defeat the LEP with a handful of softnose weapons?"

"Defeat the LEP? Why would I want to do that? I am a hero of the LEP. Or rather I will be. You will be the villain of this piece."

"We’ll see about that, baboon face," said Foaly, activating a switch, that sent an infrared signal to a receiver in the floor. In half a second, a secret membrane of plasma would warm up. Half a second later a neutrino charge would spread across the plasma gel like wildfire, bouncing anyone connected to the floor off at least three walls. In theory.

Cudgeon giggled delightedly. "Don’t tell me. Your plasma tiles aren’t working."

Foaly was flummoxed. Momentarily. Then he lowered his hooves and gingerly pressed another button. This one engaged a voice-activated laser. The centaur held his breath.

"No plasma tiles," continued Cudgeon. "And no voice-activated laser. You really are slipping, Foaly. Not that I’m surprised. I always knew you’d be exposed for the donkey you are."

The lieutenant settled into a swivel chair, propping his feet on the computer bank. "So have you figured it out yet?"

Foaly thought. Who could it be? Who could beat him at his own game? Not Cudgeon, that was for sure. A techno fool if there ever was one. No, there was only one person with the know-how to deactivate the booth’s safety measures.

"Opal Koboi," he breathed.

Cudgeon patted his head. "That’s right. Opal did a little reprogramming during the upgrading work. And the funny thing is, the Council footed the bill. She even charged for the spy cameras. Even now, the B’wa Kell are preparing to launch their attack on the city. LEP weapons and communications are down, and the best thing is that you, my horsy friend, will be held responsible. After all, you have locked yourself in the Operations Booth in the middle of a crisis."

"Nobody will believe it!" protested Foaly.

"Oh, yes they will, especially when you disengage the LEP security, including the DNA cannons."

"Which I won’t be doing anytime soon."

Cudgeon twirled a matte-black remote between his fingers. "I’m afraid it’s not up to you anymore. Opal took your little operation apart, and wired the whole lot into this little beauty."

Foaly swallowed. "You mean . . ."

"That’s right," said Cudgeon. "Nothing works unless I press the button."

He pressed the button. And even if Foaly had had the reactions of a sprite, he would never have had time to draw up all his hooves before the plasma shock blasted him right out of his specially modified swivel chair.

Arctic Circle

Butler instructed everyone to attach themselves to the Moonbelt, one per link. Floating slightly in the buffeting wind, the group maneuvered itself to the carriage doorway like a drunken crab.

It’s simple physics, Artemis told himself. Reduced gravity will prevent us being dashed against the Arctic ice. In spite of all his logic, when Root launched the group into the night, Artemis couldn’t hold back a single gasp. Later, when he replayed the incident in his mind’s eye, Artemis would edit out the breath.

The slipstream spun them beyond the railway sleepers, into a drift. Butler turned off the antigravity belt a second before impact. Otherwise they could have bounced away like men on the moon.

Root was first to detach, scooping handfuls of snow from the surface until his fingers reached the compacted ice below. He heard a click behind his shoulder.

"Stand back," advised Butler, taking aim with his handgun. Root obliged, shielding his eyes with a forearm. Ice slivers could blind you just as efficiently as six-inch nails. Butler put a full clip into a three-inch spread, blasting a shallow hollow in the frozen surface. Instant sleet drenched the already sodden group. Root was checking the results before the smoke cleared. They had seconds left before Holly’s time ran out. After a certain time it mightn’t be wise to attempt a graft. Even if they could.

The commander jumped into the dip, sweeping aside layers of loose ice. There was a disk of brown among the white.

"Yes," he crowed. "Earth!"

Butler lowered Holly’s twitching form into the hole. She seemed like a doll in his powerful hands. Tiny and limp. Root curled Holly’s fingers around the illegal acorn, thrusting her left hand deep into the shattered soil. He pulled a role of tape from his belt, crudely securing the finger to roughly its original position.

The elf and two humans gathered around and waited.

"It mightn’t take," muttered Root nervously. "This sealed acorn thing is new. Never been tested. Foaly and his ideas. But they usually work. They usually do."

Artemis laid a hand on his shoulder. It was all he could think to do. Giving comfort was not one of his strong points.

Five seconds. Ten. Nothing.

Then ...

"Look," cried Artemis. "A spark."

A solitary blue spark traveled lazily along the length of Holly’s arm, winding along the veins. It crossed her chest, climbed her pointed chin and sank into the flesh right between the eyes.

"Stand back," advised Root. "I saw a two-minute healing in Tulsa one night. Damn near destroyed an entire shuttle port. I’ve never even heard of a four-minuter."

They backpedaled to the lip of the crater, and not a moment too soon. More sparks erupted from the earth, targeting Holly’s hand as the area most in need of assistance. They sank into her finger joint like plasma torpedoes, melting the plastic tape.

Holly shot upright, arms swinging like a puppet. Her legs began to jerk, kicking invisible enemies. Then from her vocal cords came a high-pitched keening that cracked the thinner sheets of ice.

"Is this normal?" whispered Artemis, as though Holly could hear.

"I think so," answered the commander. "The brain is running a systems check. It’s not like fixing cuts and bruises, if you know what I mean."

Every pore in Holly’s body started to steam, venting trace radiation. She thrashed and steamed, sinking in a pool of slush. Not a pretty sight. The water evaporated, shrouding the LEP captain in mist. Only her left hand was visible, fingers a desperate blur.

Holly suddenly stopped moving. Her hand froze, then dropped through the mist. The Arctic night rushed in to reclaim the silence.

They inched closer, leaning into the fog. Artemis wanted to see, but he was afraid to look.

Butler took a breath, batting aside sheets of mist. All was quiet below. Holly’s frame lay still as the grave.

Artemis peered at the shape in the hole.

"I think she’s awake. . . ."

He was cut short by Captain Short’s sudden return to consciousness. She bolted upright, icicles coating her eyelashes and auburn hair. Her chest ballooned as she swallowed huge gulps of air.

Artemis grabbed her shoulders, for once abandoning his shell of icy composure. "Holly. Holly, speak to me. Your finger. Is it okay?"

Holly wiggled her fingers, then curled them into a fist.

"I think so," she said, and whacked Artemis right between the eyes. The surprised boy landed in a snowdrift for the third time that day.

Holly winked at an amazed Butler.

"Now we’re even," she said.

Commander Root didn’t have many treasured memories. But in future days, when things were at their grimmest, he would conjure up this moment and have a quiet chuckle.

Operations Booth

Foaly woke up sore, which was unusual for him. He couldn’t even remember the last time he’d experienced actual pain. His feelings had been hurt a few times by Julius’s barbed comments, but actual physical discomfort was not something he cared to endure when he could avoid it.

The centaur was lying on the Operations Booth floor, tangled in the remains of his office chair.

"Cudgeon," he growled, and what followed was about two minutes’ worth of unprintable obscenity.

When he had finally vented his anger the centaur’s brain kicked in, and he hauled himself from the plasma tiles. His rump was singed. He was going to have a couple of bald spots on his hindquarters. Very unattractive on a centaur. It was the first thing a prospective mate looked for in the nightclubs. Not that Foaly had ever been much of a dancer. Four left hooves.

The booth was sealed. Tighter than a gnome’s wallet, as the saying went. Foaly typed in his exit code.

"Foaly. Doors."

The computer remained silent. He tried verbal.

"Foaly. One-twenty-one override. Doors."

Not a peep. He was trapped. A prisoner of his own security devices. Even the windows were set to blackout, blocking his view of the Operations room. Completely locked out, and locked in. Nothing worked.

Well, that wasn’t completely accurate. Everything worked, but his precious computers wouldn’t respond to his touch. And Foaly was only too well aware that there was no way out of the booth without access to the mainframe.

Foaly plucked the tinfoil hat from his head, crunching it into a ball.

"A lot of good you did me!" he said, tossing it into the waste recycler. The recycler would analyze the chemical makeup of the item, then divert it to the appropriate tank.

A plasma monitor crackled into life on the wall. Opal Koboi’s magnified face appeared, grinning the widest grin the centaur had ever seen.

"Hello, Foaly. Long time no see."

Foaly returned the grin, but his wasn’t quite as wide.

"Opal. How nice to see you. How are the folks?"

Everyone knew how Opal had bankrupted her father. It was a legend in the corporate world.

"Very well, thanks. Cumulus House is a lovely asylum."

Foaly decided he would try sincerity. It was a tool he didn’t use very often. But there was a first time for everything.

"Opal. Think about what you’re doing. Cudgeon is insane, for pity’s sake. Once he has what he wants, he will dispose of you in a heartbeat!"

The pixie shook a perfectly manicured finger.

"No, Foaly, you’re wrong. Briar needs me. He really does. He’d be nothing without me and my gold."

The centaur looked deep into Opal’s eyes. The pixie actually believed what she was saying. How could someone so brilliant be so deluded?

"I know what this is all about, Opal."

"Oh, you do?"

"Yes. You’re still sore because I won the science medal back in university."

For a second Koboi’s composure slipped, and her features didn’t seem quite so perfect.

"That medal was mine, you stupid centaur. My wing design was far superior to your ridiculous iris-cam. You won because you were a male. And that’s the only reason."

Foaly grinned satisfied. Even with the odds so hugely against him, he hadn’t lost the ability to be the most annoying creature under the world when he wanted to be.

"So what do you want, Opal? Or did you just call to chat about our school days?"

Opal took a long drink from a crystal glass.

"I just called, Foaly, to let you know I’m watching, so don’t try anything. I also wanted to show you something from the security cameras downtown. This is live footage by the way, and Briar is with the Council right now, blaming you for it. Happy viewing."

Opal’s face disappeared to be replaced by a high-angle view of downtown Haven. A tourist district, outside Spud’s Spud Emporium. Generally, this area would be thronged with Atlantean couples taking photos of each other in front of the fountain. But not today, because today the square was a battleground. The B’wa Kell were waging open war with the LEP, and by the looks of things, it was a one-sided battle. The goblins were firing their softnose weapons, but the police were not shooting back. They just huddled behind whatever shelter they could find. Completely helpless.

Foaly’s jaw dropped. This was disastrous. And he was being blamed for everything. Of course, the thing about stool pigeons was, they could not be left alive to protest their innocence. He had to get a message to Holly, and fast, or they were all dead fairies.





CHAPTER 10




TROUBLE AND STRIFE




Downtown Haven

Spud’s Spud Emporium was not a place you wanted to be on the best of days. The fries were greasy, the meat was mysterious, and the milk shakes had gristly lumps. Nevertheless, the emporium did a roaring trade, especially during the solstice.

At this precise moment, Captain Trouble Kelp would almost have preferred to be inside the fast-food joint choking down a rubbery burger than outside it dodging lasers. Almost.

With Root out of the picture, field command fell to Captain Kelp. Usually this was a responsibility he would have relished. But then again, usually he would have had the benefit of transport and weapons. Thankfully, they still had communications.

Trouble and his patrol had been scouring B’wa Kell hot spots when they were bushwhacked by a hundred members of the reptilian triad. The goblins had positioned themselves on the rooftops, catching the LEP squad in a deadly crossfire from softnose lasers and fireballs. Pretty complex thinking for the B’wa Kell. The average goblin found simultaneous scratching and spitting a challenge. They had to be getting their orders from someone.

Trouble and one of his junior corporals were pinned down behind a photo booth, while the remaining officers had managed to take cover in Spud’s Emporium.

For the moment they were keeping the goblins at bay with lasers and buzz batons. The lasers had a range of ten yards, and the buzz batons were only good for close quarters. Both ran on electric batteries and would run out eventually. After that they were down to rocks and bare fists. They didn’t even have the advantage of shielding, since the B’wa Kell were equipped with LEP combat helmets. Older models certainly, but still fitted with anti-shield filters.

A fireball arced over the booth, melting through the asphalt at their feet. The goblins were wising up. Relatively speaking. Instead of trying to blast through the booth, they were lobbing missiles over it. Time was short now.

Trouble tapped his mike. "Kelp to base. Anything on weapons?"

"Not a thing, Cap’," came the reply. "Plenty of officers, with nuthin’ to shoot ’cept their fingers. We’re charging up the old ’lectric guns, but that’s gonna take eight hours minimum. There are a coupla body armor suits over in recon, I’m having ’em double-timed over there right now. Five minutes. Tops."

"D’Arvit," swore the captain. They were going to have to move. Any second now this booth would fall apart, and they would be sitting ducks for goblin fire.

Beside him the corporal was quivering in terror.

"For heaven’s sake," snapped Trouble. "Pull yourself together."

"You shut up," retorted his brother Grub through wobbly lips. "You were supposed to look out for me. Mommy said."

Trouble waved a threatening finger. "It’s Captain Kelp while we’re on duty, Corporal. And for your information, I am looking out for you."

"Oh, this is looking out for me, is it?" pouted Grub.

Trouble didn’t know who annoyed him more, his kid brother or the goblins.

"Okay, Grub. This booth isn’t going to last much longer. We’ve got to make a break for the emporium. Understand?"

Grub’s wobbling lip suddenly stiffened considerably.

"No chance. I’m not moving. You can’t make me. I don’t mind if I stay here for the rest of my life."

Trouble raised his visor. "Listen to me. If you stay, the rest of your life is going to be about thirty seconds. We have to go."

"But the goblins, Troub’."

Captain Kelp grabbed his brother by the shoulders. "Don’t you worry about the goblins. You worry about my foot connecting with your behind if you slow down."

Grub winced. He’d had that experience before.

"We’re going to be all right, aren’t we, brother?"

Trouble winked. "Of course we are. I’m the captain, aren’t I?"

His little brother nodded, lip losing its stiffness.

"Good. Now you point your nose at the door, and go when I say. Got it?"

More nodding. Grub’s chin was bobbing faster than a woodpecker’s beak.

"Right Corporal. Standby. On my command . . ."

Another fireball. Closer this time. Black smoke rose from Trouble’s rubber soles. The Captain poked his nose around the wall. A laser burst almost gave him a third nostril.

A steel sandwich board spun around the corner, dancing with the force of a dozen charges. Photo Finish the sign said. Or Phot Finish to be precise. The o had been blasted out of it. Not laserproof, then. But it would have to do.

Trouble snared the revolving board, draping it over his shoulders. Armor, of sorts. The LEP suits were lined with micro filaments that would dissipate neutrino blasts or even sonic bursts, but softnoses hadn’t been used underground for decades. A burst would tear through the LEP uniform as if it were so much rice paper.

He poked his brother in the back.

"Ready?"

Grub may have nodded, or it may have been that his entire body was shaking.

Trouble gathered his legs beneath him, adjusting the sandwich board across his chest and back. It would withstand a couple of rounds. After that, his own body would be providing cover for Grub.

Another fireball. Directly between them and the emporium. In a moment the flame would sink a hole in the tar-mac. They had to go now. Through the fire.

"Seal your helmet!"

"Why?"

"Just seal it, Corporal."

Grub did. You could argue with a brother, but not a commanding officer.

Trouble placed a hand on Grub’s back and pushed. Hard.

"Go, go, go!"

They went, straight through the white heart of the flame. Trouble heard the filaments in his suit pop as they tried to cope with the heat. Boiling tar sucked at his boots, melting the rubber soles.

Then they were through, stumbling toward the double doors. Trouble scrubbed the soot from his visor. His men were waiting, huddled behind riot shields. Two paramedic warlocks had their gloves off, ready to lay on hands. Ten yards to go.

The goblins found range. A hail of charges sang through the air around them, pulverizing what was left of the emporium’s shop front. Trouble’s crown lurched forward as a slug flattened itself against his helmet.

More charges. Lower down. A tight grouping, between his shoulder blades. The sandwich board held.

The impact lifted the captain like a kite, slapping him into his brother, and carrying them both through the decimated double doors. They were instantly hauled behind a wall of riot shields.

"Grub," gasped Captain Kelp. Through the pain and noise and soot. "Is he okay?"

"Fine," answered the senior warlock paramedic, rolling Trouble onto his stomach. "Your back, on the other hand, is going to have some lovely bruises in the morning."

Captain Kelp waved the warlock away.

"Any word from the Commander?"

The warlock shook his head. "Nothing. Root is missing in action and Cudgeon has been reinstated as commander. Even worse, now they’re saying Foaly is behind this whole thing."

Trouble paled, and it wasn’t from the pain in his back.

"Foaly! It can’t be true."

Trouble ground his teeth in frustration. Foaly and the commander. He had no choice, he would have to do it. The one thing he had had nightmares about.

Captain Kelp struggled up onto one elbow. The air above their heads was alive with the buzz of softnose bursts. It was only a matter of time before they were completely overrun. It had to be done.

Trouble took a breath. "Okay, people. Listen up. Retreat to Police Plaza."

The troops froze. Even Grub caught himself in midsob. Retreat?

"You heard me!" snarled Trouble. "Retreat. We can’t hold the streets without arms. Now move it out."

The LEP shuffled to the service entrance, unaccustomed to losing. Call it retreat, call it a tactical maneuver. It was still running away. And who would have thought that order would ever come out of Trouble Kelp’s mouth.

Arctic Shuttleport

Artemis and his fellow travelers took shelter in the shuttleport. Holly made the journey slung over Butler’s shoulder. She protested loudly for several minutes, until the commander ordered her to shut up.

"You’ve just had major magical surgery," he pointed out. "So just stay quiet and do your exercises." It was vital that Holly manipulate her finger constantly for the next hour or so, to ensure the right tendons got reconnected. It’s very important to move the index finger the way you intend to move it, especially if you’re firing a weapon.

They huddled around a glow cube in the deserted departures lounge.

"Any water?" asked Holly. "I feel dehydrated after that healing."

Root winked, something that didn’t happen very often. "Here’s a little trick I learned in the field." He popped a flat-nosed shell from a clip in his belt. It was transparent and filled with clear liquid.

"You won’t get much of a drink from that," commented Butler.

"More than you’d think. This is a hydrosion shell. A miniature fire extinguisher. The water is compressed into a tiny space. You fire it into the heart of a fire and the impact reverses the compressor. Half a gallon of water is blasted at the flames. More effective than a hundred gallons poured. We call them fizzers."

"Very good," said Artemis dryly. "If you could use your weapons."

"Don’t need ’em," said Root, drawing a large knife. "Manual works just as well."

He pointed the shell’s flat tip at the mouth of a canteen, and popped the lid. A fizzing spray jetted into the container.

"There you are, Captain. Never let it be said that I don’t look after my officers."

"Clever," admitted Artemis.

"And the best thing is," said the commander, pocketing the empty fizzer, "these things are completely reusable: all I have to do is stick it in a pile of snow and the compressor will do the rest, so I won’t even have Foaly on my case for wasting equipment."

Holly took a long drink, and soon the color surged back to her cheeks. "So we were ambushed by a B’wa Kell hit team," she mused. "What does that mean?"

"It means you have a leak," said Artemis holding his hands close to the cube’s warmth. "It was my impression that this mission was top secret. Not even your Council was informed. The only person who isn’t here is that centaur."

Holly jumped to her feet. "Foaly? It can’t be."

Artemis raised his palms. "Logic. That’s all it is."

"This is all very well," interjected the commander. "But it’s conjecture. We need to assess our situation. What have we got, and what do we know for sure?"

Butler nodded. The commander was a being after his own heart. A soldier.

Root answered his own question. "We’ve still got the shuttle, provided it’s not wired. There’s a locker full of provisions. Atlantean food mostly, so get used to fish and squid."

"And what do we know?"

Artemis took over. "We know that the goblins have a source in the LEP. We also know if they tried to take out the LEP’s head, Commander Root, then they must be after the body. Their best chance of success would be to mount both operations simultaneously."

Holly chewed her lip. "So that means . . ."

"That means there is probably some kind of revolution going on underground."

"The B’wa Kell against the LEP?" scoffed Holly. "No problem."

"Generally, that may be true," agreed Artemis. "But if your weapons are out . . ."

"Then so are theirs," said Root.

Artemis moved closer to the glow cube. "Worst case scenario: Haven has been taken by the B’wa Kell and the Council members are either dead or imprisoned. Quite honestly, things look grim."

Neither fairy responded. Grim hardly did the situation justice. Disastrous was closer to the mark. Even Artemis was slightly disheartened. None of this was helping his father.

"I suggest we rest here for a while, pack some provisions, and then proceed toward Murmansk as soon as we get some cloud cover. Butler can search this man Vassikin’s apartment. Perhaps we will be lucky, and my father will be there. I realize that we are at a slight disadvantage without weapons, but we still have surprise on our side."

No one spoke for several moments. It was an uneasy silence. Everybody knew what should be said, but nobody wanted to say it.

"Artemis," said Butler eventually, laying a hand on the boy’s shoulder. "We’re in no shape to go up against the Mafiya. We don’t have any firepower, and our colleagues need to get underground, so we don’t have any magic. If we go in there now, we’re not coming out. Any of us."

Artemis stared deep into the heart of the glow cube.

"But my father is so close, Butler. I can’t give up now."

In spite of herself, Holly was touched by his unwillingness to give up, against all the odds. She was certain that, for once, Artemis wasn’t trying to manipulate anybody. He was simply a boy who missed his father. Maybe her defenses were down, but she felt sorry for him.

"We’re not giving up, Artemis," she said softly. "We’re regrouping. There’s a difference. We’ll be back. Remember, it’s always darkest before the dawn."

Artemis looked at her. "What dawn? We’re in the Arctic, remember?"

Operations Booth

Foaly was furious with himself. After all the security encryptions he’d built into his systems, Opal Koboi had simply strolled in here and hijacked the entire network. And what’s more, the LEP had paid her for the job. The centaur had to admire her nerve. It was a brilliantly simple plan. Apply for the upgrade contract, submit the lowest estimate. Get the LEP to give you an access-all-areas chip and then piggyback spy-cams on the local systems. Foaly would be willing to bet that Opal had even billed the LEP for the surveillance equipment.

Foaly pushed a few buttons experimentally. No response. Not that he’d expected any. Doubtless Opal Koboi had everything wired down to the last fiber-optic. Perhaps she was watching him at this very moment. He could just imagine her. Coiled up on a Koboi Hoverboy giggling at the plasma screen. His greatest rival, gloating over his destruction.

Foaly growled. She may have caught him off guard once, but it wouldn’t happen again. He would not go to pieces for Opal Koboi’s entertainment. . . . Then again, maybe he would.

The centaur began to heave theatrical sobs, peeping out between his fingers. Now, if I were a button camera, where would I hide? Somewhere the sweeper wouldn’t check. Foaly glanced at the bug sweeper, a small complex-looking mass of cables and chips attached to the roof. The only place the sweeper didn’t check was inside the sweeper itself.

Now he knew Opal’s vantage point, for all the good it did him. If the camera was piggybacking inside the sweeper, there would be a small blindspot directly below the unit’s titanium casing. The pixie could still see everything of importance. He was still locked out of the computer, and locked in the Operations Booth.

The centaur cradled his head between his hands, the picture of a beaten fairy. In fact he was scanning the booth. What had come in since the Koboi upgrades? There must be some untainted equipment. But there was nothing except junk. A roll of fiber-optic cable. A few conductor clips and a few tools. Nothing useful. Then something winked at him from beneath a workstation. A green light.

Foaly’s heart jumped ten beats per minute. He knew instantly what it was. Artemis Fowl’s laptop computer. Complete with modem and e-mail capability. He willed himself to maintain calm. Opal Koboi couldn’t possibly have bugged it. The device had only come in hours ago. He hadn’t even got around to dismantling it yet.

The centaur clopped across to his toolbox, and in a fit of frustration dumped the contents onto the plasma tiles. He was not so frustrated that he forgot to snag some cable and snips. The next step in his faked breakdown was to flop onto the worktop sobbing uncontrollably. Naturally, he had to flop over the precise spot where Holly had left the laptop. With a casual kick, Foaly slid the computer into the space where the sweeper’s blindspot should be.

So far, so good. Foaly popped the laptop’s lid, and quickly shut off the speakers. Humans would insist on their machines beeping at the most inopportune moments. He allowed one hand to drag across the keyboard and moments later he was in the e-mail program.

Now for the problem. Wireless Internet access is one thing, but access from the center of the earth is quite another. Cradling his head in the crook of one arm, Foaly jimmied one end of a fiber-optic cable into a scope uplink port. The scopes were shrouded trackers concealed on American communications satellites. Now he had an aerial. Let’s hope Mud Boy was switched on.

Koboi Laboratories

Opal Koboi had never had so much fun. The underworld was literally her plaything. She stretched on her Koboi Hoverboy like a contented cat, eyes devouring the chaos on the plasma monitors. The LEP had no chance. It was only a matter of time before the B’wa Kell gained access to Police Plaza, then the city was theirs. Next came Atlantis, then the human world.

Opal floated between screens, soaking up every detail. In the city, goblins flowed from every inch of darkness, armed and thirsty for blood. Softnose slugs ripped chunks from historic edifices. Ordinary fairies barricaded themselves in their houses, praying that the marauding gangs would pass them by. Businesses were looted and torched. Not too much torching, she hoped. Opal Koboi had no desire to be queen of a war zone.

A com-screen opened on the main display. It was Cudgeon on their secure line. And he seemed actually happy. The cold happiness of revenge.

"Briar," squealed Opal. "This is wonderful. I wish you were here to see it."

"Soon. I must remain with my troops. After all, because I was the one who unearthed Foaly’s treachery, the Council has reinstated me as commander. How is our prisoner?"

Opal glanced at the Foaly screen."Disappointing, frankly. I expected some plotting. An escape attempt, at least. But all he does is mope about and throw the odd tantrum."

Cudgeon’s smile widened. "Suicidal, I expect. In fact I’m certain of it." Then the recently promoted commander was all business again. "What of the LEP? Any unexpected brainwaves?"

"No. Exactly as you predicted. They are cowering in Police Plaza like tortoises in their shells. Shall I shut off local communications?"

Cudgeon shook his head."No. They forecast their every move on their so-called secure channels. Keep them open. Just in case."

Opal Koboi hovered closer to the screen. "Tell me again, Briar. Tell me about the future."

For a moment, annoyance flashed across Cudgeon’s face. But today, of all days, his good humor could not be suppressed for long.

"The council has been told that Foaly has orchestrated the sabotage from his locked Operations Booth. But you shall miraculously override the centaur’s program and return control of Police Plaza’s DNA cannons to the LEP. Those ridiculous goblins shall be overrun. I shall be the hero of the resistance, and you shall be my princess. Every military contract for the next five hundred years shall belong to Koboi Laboratories."

Opal’s breath caught in her throat. "And then?"

"And then, together we will rid the earth of these tiresome Mud Men. That, my dear, is the future."

Arctic Shuttleport

Artemis’s phone rang. Something even he hadn’t anticipated. Artemis stripped off a glove with his teeth, tearing the mobile phone from its Velcro strip.

"Text message," he said, navigating through the cell phone’s menu. "No one has this number except Butler." Holly folded her arms. "Obviously, someone does." Artemis ignored her tone. "It must be Foaly. He’s been monitoring my wireless communications for months. Either he’s using my computer, or he’s found a way to unify our platforms."

"I see," said Butler and Root together. Two big lies. Holly was unimpressed by all the jargon. "So what does it say?" Artemis tapped the tiny screen. "See for yourself." Captain Short took the cell phone, scrolling

through the message. Her face grew longer with each line ...


CMNDR ROOT. TRBLE BELOW. HAVN OVERRN BY GOBLNS. PLICE PLAZA SRROUNDED. CUDGEON



+ OPL KBOI BHND PLOT. NO WPONS R CMMUNICATIONS. DNA CNONS CNTRLLED BY KBOI. I M TRPPED IN OP BTH. CNCL THNKS IM 2 BLM. IF ALIVE PLSE HLP. IF NOT, WRNG NMBR.




Holly swallowed, her throat suddenly dry. "This is not good." The commander jumped to his feet, grabbing the cell phone. "No," he declared moments later. "It certainly isn’t.

Cudgeon! All the time it was Cudgeon. Why didn’t I see it? Can we get a message to Foaly?"

Artemis considered it. "No. There’s no network here. I’m surprised we could even receive."

"Couldn’t you rig it somehow?"

"Certainly. Just give me six months, some specialized equipment and three miles of steel girder."

Holly snorted. "Some criminal mastermind you turned out to be."

Butler placed a gentle hand on her shoulder.

"Shh," he whispered. "Artemis is thinking."

Artemis stared deep into the glow cube’s liquid plasma heart.

"We have two options," he began after a moment. Nobody interrupted, not even Holly. After all it had been Artemis Fowl who devised a way to escape the fairy time field.

"We could get some human aid. No doubt some of Butler’s more dubious acquaintances could be persuaded to help, for a fee of course."

Root shook his head. "No good."

"They could be mind-wiped afterward."

"Sometimes wipes don’t take. The last thing we need is mercenaries with residual memories. Option two?"

"We break into Koboi Laboratories, and return weapons control to the LEP."

The commander guffawed. "Break into Koboi Laboratories? Are you serious? That entire compound is built on bedrock. There are no windows, and they have blast-resistant walls, and DNA stun cannons. Any unauthorized personnel who come within a hundred yards get blasted right between the pointy ears."

Butler whistled."Seems like a whole lot of hardware for an engineering company."

"I know," sighed Root. "Koboi Labs had special permits. I signed them myself."

Butler considered it for several moments.

"Can’t be done," he pronounced eventually. "Not without the blueprints."

"D’Arvit," swore the commander. "I never thought I’d say this, but there’s only one fairy for a job like this . . ."

Holly nodded. "Mulch Diggums."

"Diggums?"

"A dwarf. Career criminal. The only fairy ever to break into Koboi Laboratories and live. Unfortunately, we lost him last year. Tunneling out of your manor, as it happens."

"I remember him," said Butler. "Nearly took my head off. A slippery character."

Root laughed softly. "Eight times I nabbed old Mulch. The last one was for the Koboi Labs job. As I recall, Mulch and his cousin set up as building contractors. A way to get plans for secure facilities. They got the Koboi contract. Mulch left himself a back door. Typical Diggums, he breaks into the most secure facility under the planet, then tries to sell an alchemy vat to one of my squeals."

Artemis sat up. "Alchemy? You have alchemy vats?"

"Stop drooling, Mud Boy. They’re experimental. The ancient warlocks used to be able to turn lead into gold, according to the Book, but the secret was lost. Even Opal Koboi hasn’t managed it yet."

"Oh," said Artemis, disappointed.

"Believe it or not, I almost miss that criminal. He had a way of insulting a person." Root glanced toward the heavens. "I wonder if he’s up there now, looking down on us."

"In a manner of speaking," said Holly guiltily. "Actually, Commander, Mulch Diggums is in Los Angeles."





CHAPTER 11




MULCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING




Los Angeles

Mulch Diggums was, in fact, outside the apartment of an Oscar-winning actress. Of course, she didn’t know he was there. And naturally he was up to no good. Once a thief, always a thief.

Not that Mulch needed the money. He’d done very well out of the Artemis Fowl siege. Well enough to take out a lease on a penthouse apartment in Beverly Hills. He’d stocked the apartment with a Pioneer entertainment system, a full DVD library, and enough beef jerky to last a lifetime. Time for a decade of rest and relaxation.

But life is not like that. It refuses to curl up and sit quietly in a corner. The habits of several centuries would not go away. Halfway through the James Bond Collection, Mulch realized that he missed the bad old days. Soon the penthouse suite’s reclusive occupant was taking midnight strolls. These strolls generally ended up inside other people’s homes.

Initially, Mulch just visited, savoring the thrill of defeating sophisticated Mud Man security systems. Then he began to take trophies. Small things—a crystal goblet, an ashtray, or a cat, if he was peckish. But soon Mulch Diggums began to crave the old notoriety, and his pilferings grew larger. Gold bars, goose-egg diamonds, or pit bull terriers, if he was really famished.

The Oscar thing began quite by accident. He nabbed one as a curiosity on a midweek break to New York. Best Original Screenplay. The following morning he was front page news coast to coast. You’d think he’d ripped off a medical convoy instead of a gilded statuette. Mulch, of course, was delighted. He’d found his new nocturnal pastime.

In the next two weeks, Mulch filched Best Soundtrack and Best Special Effects Academy Awards. The tabloids went crazy. They even gave him a nickname: the Grouch, after another well-known Oscar. When Mulch read that one, his toes wriggled for joy. And dwarf toes wriggling are quite a sight. They are nimble as fingers, double-jointed, and the less said about the smell, the better. Mulch’s mission became clear. He had to assemble an entire set.

Over the next six months, the Grouch struck all across the United States. He even made a trip to Italy to collect a Best Foreign Language Film award. He had a special cabinet made with tinted glass that could be blacked out at the touch of a button. Mulch Diggums felt alive again.

Of course, Oscar winners all over the planet tripled their security, which was just the way Mulch liked it. There was no challenge in breaking into a shack on the beach. High rise and high tech. That’s what the public wanted. So that’s what the Grouch gave them. The papers ate it up. He was a hero. During the daylight hours, when he couldn’t venture outside, Mulch busied himself writing the screenplay of his own exploits.

Tonight was a big night. The last statuette. He was going for a Best Actress Award. And not just any old best actress, tonight’s target was the tempestuous Jamaican beauty Maggie V. This year’s winner for her portrayal of Precious, a tempestuous Jamaican beauty. Maggie V had stated publicly that if the Grouch tried anything in her apartment, he would get a lot more than he bargained for. How could Mulch resist a challenge like that?

The building itself was easy to locate, a ten-story block of glass and steel just off Sunset Boulevard, a midnight stroll south of Mulch’s own home. So the intrepid dwarf packed his tools, preparing to burglarize his way into the history books.

Maggie V was on the top floor. There was no question of going up the stairs, elevator, or shaft. It would have to be an outside job.

In preparation for the climb, Mulch had not had anything to drink in two days. Dwarf pores are not just for sweating; they can take in moisture too. Very handy when you are trapped in a cave-in for days on end. Even if you can’t get your mouth to a drink, every inch of skin can leech water from the surrounding earth. When a dwarf was thirsty, as Mulch was now, his pores opened to the size of pinholes, and began to suck like crazy. This could be extremely useful, if say, you had to climb up the side of a tall building.

Mulch took off his shoes and gloves, donned a stolen LEP helmet, and began to climb.

Chute E37

Holly could feel the commander’s glare crisping the hairs on the back of her neck. She tried to ignore it, concentrating on not dashing the Atlantean ambassador’s shuttle against the walls of the Arctic chute.

"So, all this time, you knew Mulch Diggums was alive?"

Holly nudged the starboard thruster to avoid a missile of half-melted rock.

"Not for sure. Foaly just had this theory."

The commander wrung an imaginary neck. "Foaly! Why am I not surprised?"

Artemis smirked from his seat in the passenger area. "Now, you two, we need to work together as a team."

"So tell me about Foaly’s theory, Captain," ordered Root, belting himself into the copilot’s seat.

Holly activated a static wash on the shuttle’s external cameras. Positive and negative charges dislodged the sheets of dust from the lenses.

"Foaly thought Mulch’s death a bit suspicious, given that he was the best tunnel fairy in the business."

"So why didn’t he come to me?"

"It was just a hunch. With respect, you know what you’re like with hunches, Commander."

Root nodded grudgingly. It was true, he didn’t have time for hunches. It was hard evidence, or get out of my office until you’ve got some.

"The centaur did a bit of investigating on his own time. The first thing he realized was that the gold recovered was a bit light. I negotiated for the return of half the ransom, and by Foaly’s reckoning the cart was about two dozen bars short."

The commander lit one of his trademark fungus cigars. He had to admit it sounded promising: gold missing, Mulch Diggums within a hundred miles. Two and two make four.

"As you know, it’s standard procedure to spray any LEP property with solinium-based tracker, including the ransom gold. So, Foaly runs a scan for solinium, and he picks up hot spots all over Los Angeles. Particularly at the Crowley Hotel in Beverly Hills. When he hacks into the building computer, he finds the penthouse resident is listed as one Lance Digger."

Root’s pointy ears quivered. "Digger?"

"Exactly," nodded Holly. "A bit more than coincidence. Foaly came to me at that point, and I advised him to get some satellite photos before taking the file to you. Except .. ."

"Except Mister Digger is proving very elusive. Am I right?"

"Dead on."

Root’s coloring went from rose to tomato. "Mulch, that rascal. How did he do it?"

Holly shrugged. "We’re guessing he transferred his iris-cam to some local wildlife, maybe a rabbit. Then collapsed the tunnel."

"So the life signs we were reading belonged to some rabbit."

"Exactly. In theory."

"I’ll kill him," exclaimed Root pounding the control panel. "Can’t this bucket go any faster?"

Los Angeles

Mulch scaled the building without much difficulty. There were external closed-circuit cameras, but the helmet’s ion filter showed exactly where these cameras were pointed. It was a simple matter to crawl along the blind spots.

Within an hour, the dwarf was suckered outside Maggie V’s apartment on the tenth floor. The windows were triple-glazed with a bulletproof coating. Movie stars. Paranoid, every one of them.

Naturally there was an alarm point sitting on top of the pane, and a motion sensor crouching on a wall like a frozen cricket. Only to be expected.

Mulch melted a hole in the glass with a bottle of dwarf rock polish, used to clean up diamonds in the mines. Humans actually cut diamonds to shine them. Imagine. Half the stone down the drain.

Next, the Grouch used his helmet’s ion filter to sweep the room for the motion sensor’s range. The red ion stream revealed that the sensor was focused on the floor. No matter. Mulch intended going along the wall.

Pores still crying out for water, the dwarf crept along the partition, making maximum use of a stainless-steel shelving system that almost completely surrounded the main sitting room.

The next step was to find the actual Oscar. It could be hidden anywhere, including under Maggie V’s pillow, but this room was as good a place to start as any. You never know, he might get lucky.

Mulch activated the helmet’s X-ray filter, scanning the walls for a safe. Nothing. He tried the floor. Humans were getting smarter these days. There, under a fake zebra rug, a metal cuboid. Easy.

The Grouch approached the motion sensor from above, very gently twisting the neck until the gadget was surveying the ceiling. The floor was now safe.

Mulch dropped to the rug, testing the surface with his tactile toes. No pressure pads sewn into the rug’s lining.

He rolled back the fake fur, revealing a hatch in the wooden floor. The joins were barely visible to the naked eye. But Mulch was an expert, and his eyes weren’t naked—they were aided by LEP zoom lenses.

He wormed a nail into the crack, flipping the hatch. The safe itself was a bit of a disappointment, not even lead lined. He could see right into the mechanism with the X-ray filter. A simple combination lock. Only three digits.

Mulch turned the filter off. What was the point in breaking a see-through lock? Instead he put his ear to the door, jiggling the dial. In fifteen seconds the door was open at his feet.

The Oscar’s gold plating winked at him. Mulch made a big mistake at that moment. He relaxed. In the Grouch’s mind he was already back in his own apartment, swigging from a two-gallon bottle of ice-cold water. And relaxed thieves are destined for prison.

Mulch neglected to check the statuette for traps, plucking it straight from the safe. If he had checked, he would have realized that there was a wire attached magnetically to the base. When the Oscar was moved, a circuit was broken, allowing all hell to break loose.

Chute E37

Holly set the autopilot to hover at ten thousand feet below the surface. She slapped herself on the chest to release the harness, then joined the others in the rear of the shuttle.

"Two problems. Firstly, if we go any lower, we’ll be picked up on the scanners, presuming they’re still operating."

"Why am I not looking forward to number two?" asked Butler.

"Secondly, this particular chute was retired when we pulled out of the Arctic."

"Which means?"

"Which means the supply tunnels were collapsed. We have no way into the chute system without supply tunnels."

"No problem," declared Root. "We blast the wall."

Holly sighed."With what, Commander? This is a diplomatic craft. We don’t have any cannons."

Butler plucked two concussor eggs from a pouch on his Moonbelt.

"Will these do? Foaly thought they might come in handy."

Artemis groaned. If he didn’t know better, he’d swear the manservant was enjoying this.

Los Angeles

"Uh-oh," breathed Mulch.

In a matter of moments, things had gone from rosy to extremely dangerous. Once the security circuit was broken, a side door slid open, admitting two very large German shepherds. The ultimate canine watchdogs. They were followed by their handler, a huge man covered in protective clothing. It appeared as though he was dressed in doormats. Obviously, the dogs were unstable.

"Nice doggies," said Mulch, slowly unbuttoning his back flap.

Chute E37

Holly nudged the flight controls, inching the shuttle closer to the chute wall.

"That’s as near as we get," she said into her helmet mike. "Any closer and the thermals could flip us against the rock face."

"Thermals?" growled Root. "You never said anything about thermals before I climbed out here."

The commander was spread-eagled on the port wing, a concussor egg jammed down each boot.

"Sorry, Commander, someone has to fly this bird."

Root muttered under his breath, dragging himself closer to the wingtip. While the turbulence was nowhere as severe as it would have been on a moving aircraft, the buffeting thermals were quite enough to shake the commander like dice in a cup. All that kept him going was the thought of his fingers tightening around Mulch Diggums’s throat.

"Just a few feet," he gasped into the mike. At least they had communications, the shuttle had its own local intercom. "A few more feet and I can make it."

"No go, Commander. That’s your lot."

Root risked a peek into the abyss. The chute stretched on forever, winding down to the orange magma glow at the earth’s core. This was madness. Crazy. There must be another way. At this point the commander would even be willing to risk an aboveground flight.

Then Julius Root had a vision. It could have been the sulphur fumes, stress, or even lack of food. But the commander could have sworn Mulch Diggums’s features appeared before him, etched into the rock face. The face was sucking on a cigar and smirking.

His determination returned in a surge. Bested by a criminal. Not likely.

Root clambered to his feet, drying sweaty palms on his jumpsuit. The thermals plucked at his limbs like mischievous ghosts.

"Ready to put some distance between us and this soon-to-be hole?" he shouted into the mike.

"Bet on it, Commander," responded Holly. "Soon as we have you back in the hold, we’re out of here."

"Okay. Stand by."

Root fired the piton dart from his belt. The titanium head sank easily into the rock. The commander knew that tiny charges inside the dart would blow out two flanges, securing it inside the face. Five yards. Not a great distance to swing on a piton cord. But it wasn’t the swing really. It was the bone-crushing drop, and the lack of handholds on the chute wall.

Come on, Julius, sniggered Root’s Mulch rock mirage. Let’s see what you look like splattered against a wall.

"You shut your mouth, convict," roared the commander. And he jumped, swinging into the void.

The rock face rushed out to meet him, knocking the breath from his lungs. Root ground his back teeth against the pain. He hoped nothing was broken, because after the Russian trip, he didn’t even have enough magic left to make a daisy bloom, never mind heal a fractured rib.

The shuttle’s forward lights picked out the laser burns where the LEP tunnel dwarfs had sealed the supply chute. That weld line would be the weak spot. Root slotted the concussor eggs along two indents.

"I’m coming for you, Diggums," he muttered, crushing the capsule detonators embedded in each one.

Thirty seconds now. Root cut the piton loose, aiming a second dart at the shuttle wing. An easy shot—he made this kind of thing in his sleep in the sim-range. Unfortunately, the simulations didn’t have thermals fouling things up at the last moment.

Just as the commander loosed his dart, the edge of a particularly strong whirlpool of gas caught the shuttle’s rear, spinning it forty degrees counterclockwise. The dart missed by a yard. It spun into the abyss, trailing the commander’s lifeline behind it. Root had two options. He could rewind the cord using his belt winch, or he could jettison the piton and try again with his spare. Julius unhooked the cord; it would be faster to try again. A good plan, had he not already used his spare to get them out from under the ice. The commander remembered this half a second after he’d cut loose his only piton.

"D’Arvit!" he swore, patting his belt for a dart that he knew would not be there.

"Trouble, Commander?" asked Holly, her voice strained from wrestling with the controls.

"No pitons left, and the charges are set."

There followed a brief silence. Very brief. No time for lengthy consultations. Root glanced at his moonomenter. Twenty-five seconds and counting.

When Holly’s voice came over the headset, it was not bursting with enthusiasm or confidence.

"Eh . . . Commander. You wearing any metal?"

"Yes," replied Root puzzled. "My breastplate, buckle, insignia, blaster. Why?"

Holly nudged the shuttle a shade closer. Any nearer was suicide.

"Put it like this. How fond are you of your ribs?"

"Why?"

"I think I know how to get you out of there."

"How?"

"I could tell you, but you’re not going to like it."

"Tell me, Captain. That’s a direct order."

Holly told him. He didn’t like it.


* * *

Los Angeles

Dwarf gas—not the most tasteful of subjects. Even dwarfs don’t like to talk about it. Many a dwarf wife was known to scold her husband for venting gas at home and not leaving it in the tunnels. The fact is that, genetically, dwarfs are prone to gas attacks, especially if they’ve been eating clay in the mine. A dwarf can take in several pounds of dirt a second through his unhinged jaws. That’s a lot of clay, with a lot of air in it. All this waste has to go somewhere. So it goes south. To put it politely, the tunnels are self-sealing. Mulch hadn’t eaten clay in months, but he still had a few bubbles of gas at his disposal when he needed them.

The dogs were poised to attack. Slobber hung in ribbons from their gaping jaws. He would be torn to pieces. Mulch concentrated. The familiar bubbling began in his stomach, pulling it out of shape. It felt as though there were a couple of gnome garbage wrestlers going for a couple of rounds in there. The dwarf gritted his teeth, this was going to be a big one.

The handler blew a football whistle. The dogs lunged forward like torpedoes with teeth. Mulch let go with a stream of gas, blowing a hole in the rug and propelling himself to the ceiling, where his thirsty pores anchored him. Safe. For the moment.

The German shepherds were particularly surprised. In their time they had chewed their way through most creatures in the food chain. This was something new. And not altogether pleasant. You have to remember that a dog’s nose is far more sensitive than a human one.

The handler blew his whistle a few more times, but any control he might have had disappeared the moment Mulch flew through the air on a jet of recycled wind. As soon as the dogs’ nasal passages cleared, they began to leap, teeth gnashing at the apex. Mulch swallowed. Dogs are smarter than the average goblin. It was only a matter of time before they thought to scale the furniture and make a jump from there.

Mulch made for the window, but the handler was there before him, blocking the hole with his padded body. Mulch noticed him fumbling with a weapon at his belt. This was getting serious. Dwarfs are many things, but bulletproof is not one of them.

To make matters worse, Maggie V appeared at the bedroom door, brandishing a chrome baseball bat. This was not the Maggie V the public was used to. Her face was covered with a green-clay mask, and there appeared to be a tea bag taped under each eye.

"Now we have you, Mister Grouch," she gloated. "And suction pads aren’t going to save you."

Mulch realized that his career as the Grouch was over. Whether he escaped or not, the LAPD would be visiting every dwarf in the city come sunrise.

Mulch only had one card left to play. The gift of tongues. Every fairy has a natural grasp of languages, since all tongues are based on Gnommish if you trace them back far enough. Including American Dog.

"Arf," grunted Mulch. "Arf, rrruff rruff."

The dogs froze. One attempted to freeze in midleap, landing on his partner. They chewed each other’s tails for a moment, then remembered that there was a creature on the ceiling barking at them. His accent was terrible, something Central European. But it was Dog nevertheless.

"Aroof?" inquired dog number one.

Mulch pointed at the handler.

"Woof arfy arrooof! That human has a big bone inside his shirt," he grunted. (Obviously, that’s a translation.)

The German shepherds pounced on their handler; Mulch scampered through the hole in the window; and Maggie V howled so much that her mask cracked and her tea bags fell off. And even though the Grouch knew that this particular chapter in his career was closed, the weight of Maggie V’s Academy Award inside his shirt gave him no little satisfaction.

Chute E37

Twenty seconds left before the concussors blew, and the commander was still flattened against the chute wall. They had no wing sets, and no time to get a set outside even if they had. If they couldn’t pull Root out of there right now, then he’d be blown off the wall and into the abyss. And magic didn’t work on melted slop. There was only one option. Holly would have to use the gripper clamps.

All shuttles are equipped with secondary landing gear. If the docking nodes fail, then four magnetic gripper clamps could be blasted from recessed grooves. These clamps will latch onto the metal underside of the landing-bay dock, reeling the shuttle into the airlock. The grippers also came in handy in unfamiliar environments, where the magnets would seek out trace elements and latch on like sucker slugs.

"Okay, Julius," said Holly. "Don’t move a muscle."

Root paled. Julius. Holly had called him Julius. That was not good.

Ten seconds.

Holly flicked down a small view screen.

"Release forward-port docking clamp."

A grating hum signaled the clamp’s release.

The commander’s image appeared in the view screen. Even from here he looked worried. Holly centered a crosshairs on his chest.

"Captain Short. Are you absolutely sure about this?"

Holly ignored her superior. "Range fifteen yards. Magnets only."

"Holly, maybe I could jump. I could make it. I’m sure I could make it."

Five seconds . . .

"Fire port clamp."

Six tiny charges ignited around the clamp’s base, sending the metal disk rocketing from its socket, trailed by a length of retractable polymer cable.

Root opened his mouth to swear, but the clamp crashed into his chest, driving every gasp of air from his body. Several somethings cracked.

"Reel it in," spat Holly into the computer mike, simultaneously peeling across the chute. The commander was dragged behind like an extreme surfer.

Zero seconds. The concussors blew, sending four tons of rubble careering into the void. A drop in an ocean of magma.

A minute later the commander was strapped on a gurney in the Atlantean Ambassador’s sick bay. It hurt to breathe, but that wasn’t going to stop him talking.

"Captain Short!" he rasped. "What the hell were you thinking? I could have been killed."

Butler ripped open Root’s tunic to survey the damage.

"You could have been. Five more seconds and you were pulp. It’s thanks to Holly that you are still alive."

Holly grabbed a medi-pac from the first-aid box. She crumpled it between her fingers to activate the crystals. Another of Foaly’s inventions. Ice packs infused with healing crystals. No substitute for magic, but better than a hug and a kiss.

"Where does it hurt?"

Root coughed, blood splattering his uniform. "The general bodily area. Couple ribs gone."

Holly chewed her lip. She was no doctor, and healing was by no means an automatic business. Things could go wrong. Holly knew a vice captain once who had broken a leg and passed out. He woke up with one foot pointing backward. Not that Holly hadn’t performed some tricky operations before. When Artemis had wanted his mother’s depression cured, she had been in a different time zone. Holly had sent out a strong positive signal, with enough sparks in it to hang around for a few days. A sort of general pick-me-up. Anyone who even visited Fowl Manor for the following week should have gone away whistling.

"Holly," groaned Root.

"Okay," she stammered. "Okay."

She laid her hands on Root’s chest, sending the magic scurrying down her fingers.

"Heal," she breathed.

The commander’s eyes rolled back in his head. The magic was shutting him down for recuperation. Holly laid a medi-pac on the unconscious LEP officer’s chest.

"Hold that," she instructed Artemis. "Ten minutes only. Otherwise there’ll be tissue damage."

Artemis applied pressure to the pack. His fingers were quickly submerged in a pool of blood. Suddenly the desire to pass a smart remark utterly deserted him. First physical exercise, then actual bodily harm. And now this. These past few days were turning out to be quite educational. He’d almost prefer to be back in Saint Bartleby’s.

Holly returned quickly to the cockpit, panning the external cameras toward the supply tunnel. Butler squeezed into the copilot’s chair.

"Well," he asked. "What’ve we got?"

Holly grinned. And for a second her expression reminded the manservant of Artemis Fowl.

"We’ve got a big hole."

"Good. Then let’s go visit an old friend."

Holly’s thumbs hovered over the thrusters. "Yes," she said. "Let’s."

The Atlantean shuttle disappeared into the supply tunnel faster than a carrot down Foaly’s gullet. And for those who don’t know, that’s pretty fast.

The Crowley Hotel, Beverly Hills, Los Angeles

Mulch made it back to his hotel undetected. Of course, this time he didn’t have to scale the walls. It would have been more of a challenge than Maggie V’s building. The walls here were brick, very porous. His fingers would have leeched the moisture from the stone and lost their suction.

No, this time Mulch used the main foyer. And why wouldn’t he? As far as the doorman was concerned, he was Lance Digger, reclusive millionaire. Short, maybe. But short and rich.

"Evening, Art," said Mulch, saluting the doorman on his way to the elevator.

Art peered over the marble-topped desk.

"Ah, Mister Digger, it’s you," he said slightly puzzled. "I thought I heard you passing below my sight line only moments ago."

"Nope," grinned Mulch. "First time tonight."

"Hmm. The night wind, perhaps."

"Maybe. You’d think they’d block up the holes in this building. All the rent I’m paying."

"You would, indeed," agreed Art. Always agree with the tenants: company policy.

Inside the mirrored elevator, Mulch used a telescopic pointer to push P for the penthouse. For the first few months he had jumped to reach the button, but that was undignified behavior for a millionaire. And besides, he was certain that Art could hear the thumping from the security desk.

The mirrored box rose silently, flickering past the floors toward the penthouse. Mulch resisted the urge to take the Academy Award out of his bag. Someone could board the elevator. He contented himself with a long drink from a bottle of Irish springwater, the closest to fairy pure it was possible to get. As soon as he had stowed the Oscar he would run a cold bath, and give his pores a drink. Otherwise he could wake up in the morning glued to the bed.

Mulch’s door was key coded. A fourteen-number sequence. Nothing like a bit of paranoia to keep you out of prison. Even though the LEP believed that he was dead, Mulch could never quite shake the feeling that one day Julius Root would figure it all out and come looking for him.

The apartment decor was quite unusual for a human dwelling. A lot of clay, crumbling rock, and water features. More like the inside of a cave than an exclusive Beverly Hills residence.

The northern wall appeared to be a single slab of black marble. Appeared to be. Closer inspection revealed a forty-inch flat-screen television, a DVD slot, and a tinted glass pane. Mulch hefted a remote control bigger than his leg, popping the hidden cabinet with another complicated key code. Inside were three rows of Oscars. Mulch placed Maggie V’s on a waiting velvet pad.

He wiped an imaginary tear from the corner of his eye.

"I’d like to thank the Academy," giggled the dwarf.

"Very touching," said a voice behind him.

Mulch slammed the cabinet door shut, cracking the glass pane.

There was a human youth beside the rockery. In his apartment! The boy’s appearance was strange even by Mud Man standards. He was abnormally pale, raven-haired, slender, and dressed in a school suit that looked as though it had been dragged across two continents. The hairs on Mulch’s chin stiffened. This boy was trouble. Dwarf hair is never wrong.

"Your alarm was amusing," continued the boy. "It took me several seconds to bypass it."

Mulch knew he was in trouble then. Human police don’t break into people’s apartments.

"Who are you, hu—boy?"

"I think the question here is, who are you? Are you reclusive millionaire Lance Digger? Are you the notorious Grouch? Or perhaps, as Foaly suspects, you are escaped convict Mulch Diggums?"

Mulch ran, the last vestiges of gas providing him with an extra burst of speed. He had no idea who this Mud Boy was, but if Foaly had sent him, then he was a bounty hunter of one kind or another.

The dwarf raced across the sunken lounge, making for his escape route. It was the reason he’d chosen this building. In the early nineteen-hundreds, a wide-bore chimney had run the length of the multistory building. When a central heating system had been installed in the fifties, the building contractor had simply packed the chute with dirt, topping it off with a seal of concrete. Mulch had smelled the vein of soil the second his real estate agent had opened the front door. It had been a simple matter to uncover the old fireplace and chip away the concrete. Voilà. Instant tunnel.

Mulch unbuttoned his back flap on the run. The strange youth made no attempt to follow him. Why would he? There was nowhere to go.

The dwarf spared a second for a parting shot.

"You’ll never take me alive, human. Tell Foaly not to send a Mud Man to do a fairy’s job."

Oh dear, thought Artemis, rubbing his brow. Hollywood had a lot to answer for.

Mulch tore a basket of dried flowers from the fireplace and dived right in. He unhinged his jaw and was quickly submerged in the century-old clay. It was not really to his taste. The minerals and nutrients had long since dried up. Instead the soil was infused with a hundred years of burnt refuse and tobacco ash. But it was clay nevertheless, and this was what dwarfs were born to do. Mulch felt his anxiety melt away. There wasn’t a creature alive that could catch him now. This was his domain.

The dwarf descended rapidly, chewing his way down floor by floor. More than one wall collapsed on his way past. Mulch had a feeling that he wouldn’t be getting his deposit back, even if he had been around to collect it.

In a little over a minute, Mulch had reached the basement parking garage. He rehinged, gave his rear end a shake to dislodge any bubbles of gas, then tumbled through the grate. His specially adapted four-wheel drive was waiting for him. Fueled up, blacked out, and ready to go.

"Suckers," gloated the dwarf, fishing the keys from a chain around his neck.

Then Captain Holly Short materialized not two feet away.

"Suckers?" she said, powering up her buzz baton.

Mulch considered his options. The basement floor was asphalt. Asphalt was death to dwarfs, sealed up their insides like glue. There appeared to be a man mountain blocking the basement ramp. Mulch had seen that one before in Fowl Manor. That meant the human upstairs must be the infamous Artemis Fowl. Captain Short was dead ahead, looking none too merciful. Only one way to go. Back into the flue. Up a couple of stories, and hide out in another apartment.

Holly grinned. "Go on, Mulch. I dare you."

And Mulch did. He turned, launching himself back into the chimney, expecting a sharp shock in the rear end. He was not disappointed. How could Holly miss a target like that?

Chute E116, Below Los Angeles

The Los Angeles shuttleport was ten miles south of the city, hidden beneath the holographic projection of a sand dune. Root was waiting for them in the shuttle. He had recovered just enough to crack a grin.

"Well, well," he grunted, hauling himself off the gurney, a fresh medi-pac strapped across his ribs. "If it isn’t my favorite reprobate, back from the dead."

Mulch helped himself to a jar of squid paté from the Atlantean Ambassador’s personal cooler.

"Why is it, Julius, that you never pay me a social visit? After all, I did save your career back in Ireland. If it hadn’t been for me, you never would have known about Fowl’s copy of the Book."

When Root was fuming, as he was now, you could have toasted marshmallows on his cheeks.

"We had a deal, convict. You broke it. And now I’m bringing you in."

Mulch scooped dollops of paté from the jar with his stubby fingers.

"Could use a little beetle juice," he commented.

"Enjoy it while you can, Diggums. Because your next meal is going to be pushed through a slot in a door."

The dwarf settled back in a padded chair. "Comfortable."

"I thought so," agreed Artemis. "Some form of liquid suspension. Expensive, I imagine."

"Sure beats prison shuttles," agreed Mulch. "I remember this one time they caught me selling a van Gogh to a Texan. I was transported in a shuttle the size of a mouse hole. They had a troll in the next cubicle. Stank something awful."

Holly grinned. "That’s what the troll said."

Root knew he was being goaded, but he blew his top anyway.

"Listen to me, convict. I have not traveled all this way to listen to your war stories. So shut your trap before I shut it for you."

Mulch was unimpressed by the outburst.

"Just out of interest, Julius, why have you traveled all this way? The great Commander Root, commandeering an ambassador’s shuttle, just to apprehend little old me? I don’t think so. So, what’s going on? And what’s with the Mud Men?" He nodded at Butler. "Especially that one."

The manservant grinned. "Remember me, little man? Seems to me I owe you something."

Mulch swallowed. He had crossed swords with Butler before. It hadn’t ended well for the human. Mulch had vented a bowelful of dwarf gas directly at the manservant.

Very embarrassing for a bodyguard of his status, not to mention painful.

For the first time Root smiled, even though it stretched his ribs. "Okay, Mulch. You’re right. Something is going on. Something important."

"I thought so. And as usual, you need me to do your dirty work."

Mulch rubbed his rump. "Well, assaulting me isn’t going to help. You didn’t have to buzz me so hard, Captain. That’s going to leave a mark."

Holly cupped a hand around one pointed ear. "Hey, Mulch, if you listen really hard you can just about make out the sound of nobody giving a hoot. From what I saw, you were living pretty well on LEP gold."

"That apartment cost me a fortune, you know. The deposit alone was four years of your salary. Did you see the view? Used to belong to some movie director."

Holly raised an eyebrow. "Glad to see the money was put to good use. Heaven forbid you should squander it."

Mulch shrugged. "Hey, I’m a thief. What did you expect, I’d start a shelter?"

Artemis cleared his throat. "This reunion is all very touching. But while you’re exchanging witticisms, my father is freezing in the Arctic."

The dwarf zipped up his suit. "His father? You want me to rescue Artemis Fowl’s father? In the Arctic?" There was real fear in his voice. Dwarfs hated ice almost as much as fire.

Root shook his head. "I wish it were that simple, and in a few minutes so will you."

Mulch’s beard hairs curled in apprehension. And as his grandmother always said, Trust the hair, Mulch, trust the hair.





CHAPTER 12




THE BOYS ARE BACK




Operations Booth

Foaly was thinking. Always thinking. His mind popped off ideas like corn in a microwave. But he couldn’t do anything with them. He couldn’t even call up Julius and pester him with his harebrained schemes. Fowl’s laptop seemed to be the centaur’s only weapon. It was like trying to fight a troll with a toothpick.

Not that the human computer was without some merit, in an ancient-history kind of a way. The e-mail had already proved useful. Provided there was anybody alive to answer it. There was also a small camera mounted on the lid, for video conferencing. Something the Mud Men had only come up with recently. Until then, humans had communicated purely through text or sound waves. Foaly tutted.

Barbarians. But this camera was pretty high quality, with several filter options. If the centaur didn’t know better, he’d swear someone had been leaking fairy technology.

Foaly swiveled the laptop with his hoof, pointing the camera toward the screens. Come on Cudgeon, he thought. Smile for the birdie.

He didn’t have long to wait. Within minutes a com screen flickered into life, and Cudgeon appeared, waving a white flag.

"Nice touch," commented Foaly sarcastically.

"I thought so," smiled the elf, waving the pennant theatrically. "I’m going to need this later."

Cudgeon pressed a button on the remote control.

"Why don’t I show you what’s going on outside?"

The windows cleared to reveal several squads of technicians feverishly trying to break the booth’s defenses. Most were aiming computer sensors at the booth’s various interfaces, but some were doing it the old-fashioned way, whacking the sensors with big hammers. None were having any luck.

Foaly swallowed. He was a rat in a trap.

"Why don’t you fill me in on your plan, Briar? Isn’t that what the power-crazed villain usually does?"

Cudgeon settled back into his swivel chair.

"Certainly, Foaly. Because this isn’t one of your precious human movies. There will be no hero rushing in at the last moment. Short and Root are already dead. As are their human partners. No reprieve, no rescue. Just certain death."

Foaly knew he should be feeling sadness, but hatred was all he could find.

"Just when things are at their most desperate, I shall instruct Opal to return weapons control to the LEP. The B’wa Kell will be rendered unconscious, and you will be blamed for the entire affair, providing you survive, which I doubt."

"When the B’wa Kell recover, they will name you."

Cudgeon wagged a finger. "Only a handful know I am involved, and I shall take care of them personally. They have already been summoned to Koboi Labs. I shall join them shortly. The DNA cannons are being calibrated to reject goblin strands. When the time comes, I shall activate them, and the entire squadron will be out for the count."

"And then, Opal Koboi becomes your empress, I suppose?"

"Of course," said Cudgeon aloud. But then he manipulated the remote’s keyboard, making certain they were on a secure channel.

"Empress?" he breathed. "Really, Foaly. Do you think I’d go to all this trouble to share power? Oh no, as soon as this charade is over Miss Koboi will have a tragic accident. Perhaps several tragic accidents."

Foaly bristled. "At the risk of sounding clichéd, Briar, you’ll never get away with this."

Cudgeon’s finger hovered over the terminate button.

"Well, if I don’t," he said pleasantly, "you won’t be alive to gloat this time."

And he was gone, leaving the centaur to sweat it out in the booth. Or so Cudgeon thought.

Foaly reached below the desk to the laptop.

"And cut," he murmured, pausing the camera. "Take five, people, that’s a wrap."

Chute E116

Holly clamped the shuttle on the wall of a disused chute.

"We’ve got about thirty minutes. Internal sensors says there’s a flare coming up here in half an hour, and no shuttle is built to withstand that kind of heat."

They gathered in the pressurized lounge to put together a plan. All eyes naturally turned to Artemis. "As I said, we need to break into Koboi Labs and regain control of the LEP weaponry."

Mulch was out of his chair and heading for the door.

"No way, Julius. That place has been upgraded since I was there. I heard they’ve got DNA-coded cannons."

Root grabbed the dwarf by the scruff of his neck.

"One: don’t call me Julius. And two: you’re acting as if you have a choice, convict."

Mulch glared at him. "I do have a choice, Julius. I can just serve out my sentence in a nice little cell. Putting me in the line of fire is a violation of my civil rights."

Root’s facial tones alternated from pastel pink to turnip purple.

"Civil rights!" he spluttered. "You’re talking to me about civil rights! Isn’t that just typical."

Then, strangely, he calmed down. In fact, he seemed almost happy. Those who were close to the commander knew that when he was happy, somebody else was about to be extremely sad.

"What?" asked Mulch suspiciously.

Root lit one of his noxious fungus cigar.

"Oh, nothing. Just that you’re right, that’s all."

The dwarf squinted. "I’m right? You’re saying, in front of witnesses, that I’m right."

"Certainly you are. Putting you in the line of fire would violate every right in the book. So instead of cutting you the fantastic deal that I was about to offer, I’m going to add a couple of centuries to your sentence and throw you in maximum security." Root paused, blowing a cloud of smoke at Mulch’s face. "In Howler’s Peak."

Mulch paled beneath the mud caking his cheeks. "Howler’s Peak? But that’s a—"

"A goblin prison," said the commander. "I know. But for an obvious escape risk such as yourself, I don’t think I’d have any trouble convincing the board to make an exception."

Mulch dropped into the padded gyro chair. This wasn’t good. The last time he’d been in a cell with goblins, it hadn’t been any fun. And that had been in Police Plaza. He wouldn’t last a week in the general population.

"So what was this deal?"

Artemis smiled, fascinated. Commander Root was smarter than he looked. Then again, it would be almost impossible not to be.

"Oh, now you’re interested?

"I might be. No promises."

"Okay, here it is. One-time offer. Don’t even bother bargaining. You get us into Koboi Labs, and I give you a two-day head start when this is over."

Mulch swallowed. That was a good offer. They must be in a whole lot of trouble.

Police Plaza, Haven City

Things were heating up at Police Plaza. The monsters were at the door. Literally. Captain Kelp was running between stations, trying to reassure his men.

"Don’t worry, people, they can’t get through those doors with softnoses. Nothing less than some kind of missile ..."

At that moment a tremendous force buckled the main doors, like a child blowing up a paper bag. They held. Barely.

Cudgeon came rushing out of the tactical room, his commander’s acorns glinting on his breast. With his reinstatement by the Council, he had made history by becoming the only Commander in the LEP to have been appointed twice.

"What was that?"

Trouble brought up a front view on the monitors. A goblin stood there with a large tube on his shoulder.

"Bazooka of some kind. I think it’s one of the old wide-bore softnose cannons."

Cudgeon smacked his own forehead. "Don’t tell me. They were all supposed to have been destroyed. A curse on that centaur! How did he manage to sneak all that hardware out from under my nose!"

"Don’t be too hard on yourself," said Trouble. "He fooled all of us."

"How much more of that can we stand?"

Trouble shrugged. "Not much. A couple more hits. Maybe they only had one missile."

Famous last words. The doorway shook a second time. Large chunks of masonry tumbled from the marble pillars.

Trouble picked himself off the ground, magic zipping a gash on his forehead.

"Paramedics, check for casualties. Have we got those weapons charged yet?"

Grub hobbled over, hampered by the weight of two electric rifles.

"Ready to go, Captain. Thirty-two weapons. Twenty pulses each."

"Okay. Best marksfairies only. Not one shot fired until I give the word."

Grub nodded, his face grim and pale.

"Good, Corporal, now move it out."

When his brother was out of earshot, Trouble spoke quietly to Commander Cudgeon.

"I don’t know what to tell you, Commander. They blew the Atlantis tunnel, so there’s no help coming from there. We can’t get a pentagram around them to stop time. We’re completely surrounded, outnumbered and outgunned. If the B’wa Kell breach the blast doors, it will be over in seconds. We have to get into that Operations Booth. Any progress?"

Cudgeon shook his head. "The techies are working on it. We have sensors pointed at every inch of the surface. If we hit on the access code, it will be blind luck."

Trouble rubbed the tiredness from his eyes. "I need time. There must be a way to stall them."

Cudgeon drew a white flag from inside his tunic.

"There is a way ..."

"Commander! You can’t go out there. It’s suicide."

"Perhaps," admitted the commander. "But if I don’t go, we could all be dead in a matter of minutes. At least this way, we’ll have a few minutes to work on the Operations Booth."

Trouble considered it. There was no other way.

"What have you got to bargain with?"

"The prisoners in Howler’s Peak. Maybe we could negotiate some kind of controlled release."

"The Council will never go for that."

Cudgeon drew himself up to his full height.

"This is not a time for politics, Captain, this is a time for action."

Trouble was quite frankly amazed. This was not the same Briar Cudgeon he knew. Someone had given this fairy a spine transplant.

But now the newly appointed commander was going to earn that acorn cluster on his lapel. Trouble felt an emotion well up in his chest. One that he’d never before associated with Briar Cudgeon. It was respect.

"Open the front door a crack," ordered the commander in steely tones. Foaly would be just loving this on camera. "I’m going out to talk to these reptiles."

Trouble relayed the command. If they ever got out of this, he would see to it that Commander Cudgeon was awarded a posthumous Golden Acorn. At the very least.

Uncharted Chute, Below Koboi Laboratories

The Atlantean shuttle sped down a vast chute, sticking tight to the walls. Close enough to scrape paint from the hull.

Artemis poked his head through from the passenger bay.

"Is this really necessary, Captain?" he asked, as they avoided death by an inch for the umpteenth time. "Or is it just more flyboy grandstanding?"

Holly winked. "Do I look like a flyboy to you, Fowl?"

Artemis had to admit that she didn’t. Captain Short was extremely pretty in a dangerous sort of way. Black-widow pretty.

"I’m hugging the surface to search for this alleged crack that Mulch insists is along here," Holly explained.

Artemis nodded. The dwarf’s theory. Just incredible enough to be true. He returned to the aft bay for Mulch’s version of a briefing.

The dwarf had drawn a crude diagram on a backlit wall panel. In fairness, there were more artistic chimpanzees. And less pungent ones. Mulch was using a carrot as a pointer, or more accurately, several carrots. Dwarfs liked carrots.

"This is Koboi Labs," he mumbled around a mouthful of vegetable.

"That?" exclaimed Root.

"I realize, Julius, that it is not an accurate schematic."

The Commander exploded from his chair. "An accurate schematic? It’s a rectangle for heaven’s sake!"

Mulch was unperturbed. "That’s not important. This is the important bit."

"That wobbly line?"

"It’s a fissure," pouted the dwarf. "Anybody can see that."

"Anybody in kindergarten maybe. So it’s a fissure, so what?"

"This is the clever bit. Y’see that fissure is not usually there."

Root began strangling the air again. Something he was doing more and more lately. But Artemis was suddenly interested.

"When does the fissure appear?"

But Mulch wasn’t just going to give a straight answer.

"Us dwarfs. We know something about rocks. Been digging around ’em for ages."

Root’s fingers began beating a tattoo on his buzz baton.

"What fairies don’t realize is that rocks are alive. They breathe."

Artemis nodded. "Of course. Heat expansion."

Mulch bit the carrot triumphantly. "Exactly. And of course, the opposite, too. They retract when they cool down."

Even Root was listening now.

"Koboi Labs are built on solid mantle. Two miles of rock. No way in, short of sonix warheads. And I think Opal Koboi might notice them."

"And that helps us how?"

"A crack opens up in that rock when it cools down. I worked on the foundations when they were building this place. Gets you right in under the labs. Still a way to go, but at least you’re in."

The commander was skeptical. "So how come Opal Koboi hasn’t noticed this gaping fissure?"

"Oh, I wouldn’t say it was gaping."

"How big?"

Mulch shrugged. "Dunno. Maybe five yards. At its widest point."

"That’s still a pretty big fissure to be sitting there all day."

"Only it’s not there all day," interrupted Artemis. "Is it, Mulch?"

"All day? I wish. I’d say, at a guess, this is only an approximation . . ."

Root was loosing his cool. Being one step behind all the time didn’t agree with him.

"Tell me, convict, before I add another scorch mark to your behind!"

Mulch was injured. "Stop shouting, Julius, you’re curling my beard."

Root opened the cooler, letting the icy tendrils curl over his face.

"Okay, Mulch. How long?"

"Three minutes, max. Last time I did it with a set of wings, wearing a pressure suit. Nearly got crushed and fried."

"Fried?"

"Let me guess," said Artemis. "The fissure only opens when the rock has contracted sufficiently. If this fissure is on a chute wall, then the coolest time would be moments before the next flare."

Mulch winked. "Smart, Mud Boy. If the rocks don’t get you, the magma will."

Holly’s voice crackled over the com speakers.

"I’ve got a visual on something. Could be a shadow, or it could just be a crack in the chute wall."

Mulch did a little dance, looking very pleased with himself. "Now, Julius, you can say it. I was right again! You owe me, Julius, you owe me."

The commander rubbed the bridge of his nose. If he made it through this alive, he was never leaving the station again.

Koboi Laboratories

Koboi Labs were surrounded by a ring of B’wa Kell goblins. Armed to the teeth, tongues hanging out for blood. Cudgeon was hustled past roughly, prodded by a dozen barrels. The DNA cannons hung inoperative in their towers, for the moment. The second Cudgeon felt the B’wa Kell had outlived their usefulness, then the guns would be reactivated.

The commander was taken to the inner sanctum, and forced to his knees before Opal and the B’wa Kell generals. Once the soldiers had been dismissed, Cudgeon was back on his feet and in command.

"Everything proceeds according to plan," he announced, crossing to stroke Opal’s cheek. "In an hour, Haven will be ours."

General Scalene was not convinced. "It would be ours a lot faster if we had some Koboi blasters."

Cudgeon sighed patiently. "We’ve been through this, General. The disruption signal knocks out all neutrino weapons. If you get blasters, so will the LEP."

Scalene shuffled into a corner, licking his eyeballs.

Of course that was not the only reason for denying the goblins neutrino weapons. Cudgeon had no intention of arming a group he intended to betray. As soon as the B’wa Kell had disposed of the Council, Opal would return power to the LEP.

"How are things proceeding?"

Opal swiveled in her Hoverboy, legs curled beneath her.

"Deliciously. The main doors fell moments after you left to . . . negotiate."

Cudgeon grinned. "Good thing I left. I might have been injured."

"Captain Kelp has pulled his remaining forces into the weapons’ room, ringing the Operations Booth. The Council are in there, too."

"Perfect," said Cudgeon.

Another B’wa Kell general, Sputa, banged the conference table.

"No, Cudgeon. Far from perfect. Our brothers are wasting away in Howler’s Peak."

"Patience, General Sputa," said Cudgeon soothingly, actually laying a hand on the goblin’s shoulder. "As soon as Police Plaza falls, we can open the cells in Howler’s Peak without resistance."

Internally Cudgeon fumed. These idiot creatures. How he detested them. Clothed in robes fashioned from their own cast-off skin. Repulsive. Cudgeon longed to reactivate the DNA cannons and stop their jabbering for a few sweet hours.

He caught Opal’s eye. She knew what he was thinking.

Her tiny teeth showed in anticipation. What a delightfully vicious creature. Which was, of course, why she had to be disposed of. Opal Koboi could never be happy as second in command.

He winked at her.

"Soon," he mouthed silently. "Soon."





CHAPTER 13




INTO THE BREACH




Below Koboi Laboratories

An LEP shuttle is shaped like a teardrop, bottom heavy with thrusters, and with a nose that could cut through steel. Of course, our heroes weren’t in an LEP shuttle, they were in the ambassador’s luxury cruiser. Comfort was definitely favored over speed. It had a nose like a gnome’s behind. Bulky and expensive looking, with a grille you could use to barbecue buffalo.

"So, you’re saying this fissure is going to open up for a couple of minutes, and I have to fly through. And that’s the entire plan?" said Holly.

"It’s the best we’ve got," said Root glumly.

"Well, at least we’ll be in padded seats when we get squashed. This thing handles like a three-legged rhinoceros."

"How was I to know?" grumbled Root. "This was supposed to be a routine run. This shuttle has an excellent stereo."

Butler raised his hand. "Listen. What’s that sound?"

They listened. The noise came from below them, like a giant clearing its throat.

Holly consulted the keel cams.

"Flare," she announced. "Big sucker. It’ll be roasting our tail feathers any minute."

The rock face before them cracked and groaned in constant expansion and contraction. Fissures heaved like grinning mouths lined with black teeth.

"That’s it. Let’s go," urged Mulch. "That fissure is going to seal up faster than a stink worm’s—"

"Not enough room yet," snapped Holly. "This is a shuttle, not one fat dwarf riding stolen wings."

Mulch was too scared to be insulted.

"Just move it. It’ll widen as we go."

Generally Holly would have waited for Root to give the green light. But this was her area. No one was going to argue with Captain Holly Short at the controls of a shuttle.

The chasm shuddered open another few feet.

Holly gritted her teeth. "Hold on to your ears," she said, ramming the thrusters to maximum.

The craft’s occupants clutched their armrests, and more than one closed his eyes. But not Artemis. He couldn’t. There was something morbidly fascinating about flying into an uncharted tunnel at a reckless speed, with only a kleptomaniac dwarf’s word for what lay at the other end.

Holly concentrated on her instruments. Hull cameras and sensors fed information to various screens and speakers. Sonar was going crazy, beeping so fast it was almost a continuous whine. Fixed halogen headlights fed frightening images to the monitors, and laser radar drew a green 3-D line picture on a dark screen. Then of course, there was the quartz windshield. But with sheets of rock dust and larger debris, the naked eye was next to useless.

"Temperature increasing," she muttered, glancing at the rearview monitor. An orange magma column blasted past the fissure mouth, spilling over into the tunnel.

They were in a desperate race. The fissure was closing behind them, and expanding before the craft’s prow. The noise was terrific. Thunder in a bubble.

Mulch covered his ears. "Next time, I’ll take Howler’s Peak."

"Quiet, convict," growled Root. "This was all your idea."

Their arguing was interrupted by a tremendous grating sound, and a shower of sparks that danced across the windshield.

"Sorry," apologized Captain Short. "There goes our communications array."

She flipped the craft sideways, scraping between two shifting plates. The plates crashed behind them. A giant’s handclap.

The magma’s heat coated the rock face, dragging the plates together. A jagged edge clipped the shuttle’s rear. Butler held his weapon. It was a comfort thing.

Then they were through. Spiraling into a cavern toward three enormous titanium rods.

"There," gasped Mulch. "The foundation rods."

Holly rolled her eyes.

"You don’t say," she groaned, firing the docking clamps.

Mulch had drawn another diagram. This one looked like a bendy snake.

"We’re being led by an idiot with a crayon," said Root, with deceptive calmness.

"I got you this far, didn’t I, Julius?" pouted Mulch.

Holly was finishing the last bottle of mineral water. A good third of it went over her head.

"Don’t you dare start sulking, dwarf," she said. "As far as I can see we’re stuck in the center of the earth, with no way out and no communications."

Mulch backed up a step. "I can see you’re a bit tense after the flight. Let’s all calm down now, shall we?"

Nobody looked very calm. Even Artemis seemed slightly shaken by their ordeal.

"That’s the hard bit over. We’re in the foundations now. The only way is up."

"Oh, really, convict?" said Root. "And how do you suggest we go up exactly?"

Mulch plucked a carrot from the larder, waving it at his diagram. "This here is . . ."

"A snake?"

"No, Julius. It’s one of the foundation rods."

"The solid titanium foundation rods, sunk in impregnable bedrock?"

"The very ones. Except one isn’t solid. Exactly."

Artemis nodded. "I thought so. You cut corners on this work, didn’t you, Mulch?"

Mulch was unrepentant. "You know what building regulations are like. Solid titanium pillars? Do you have any idea how expensive that is? Threw our estimate right off. So me and cousin Nord decided to forget the titanium packing."

"But you had to fill that column with something," interrupted the commander. "Koboi would have run scans."

Mulch nodded guiltily.

"We hooked up the sewage pipes to it for a couple of days. The sonographs came up clean."

Holly felt her throat clench. "Sewage. You mean ..."

"No. Not anymore. That was a hundred years ago, it’s just clay now. Very good clay, as it happens."

Root’s face could have boiled a large cauldron of water. "You expect us to climb through twenty yards of . . . manure."

The dwarf shrugged. "Hey, do I care? Stay here forever if you want, I’m going up the pipe."

Artemis did not like this sudden turn of events. Running, jumping, injury, okay. But sewage?

"This is your plan?" he managed to mutter.

"What’s the matter, Mud Boy?" smirked Mulch. "Afraid of getting your hands dirty?"

It was only a figure of speech, Artemis knew. But true nevertheless. He glanced at his slender fingers. Yesterday morning they had been pianist’s fingers, with manicured nails. Today they could have belonged to a builder.

Holly clapped Artemis on the shoulder.

"Okay," she declared. "Let’s do it. As soon as we save the Lower Elements, we can get back to rescuing your father."

Holly noticed a change in Artemis’s face. Almost as if his features weren’t sure how to arrange themselves. She paused, realizing what she had said. For her, the remark had been a casual encouragement, the kind of thing an officer said every day. But it seemed as though Artemis was not accustomed to being a member of a team.

"Don’t think I’m getting chummy, or anything. It’s just that when I give my word, I stick to it."

Artemis decided not to respond. He’d already been punched once today.

They descended from the shuttle on a folding stairway.

Artemis stepped onto the surface, picking his way through the jagged stones and construction debris abandoned by Mulch and his cousin a century earlier. The cavern was lit by the starlike twinkle of rock phosphorescence.

"This place is a geological marvel," he exclaimed. "The pressure at this depth should be crushing us, but it isn’t."

He knelt to examine a fungus sprouting from a rusting paint tin.

"There’s even life."

Mulch wrenched the remains of a hammer from between two rocks.

"So that’s where this got to. We overdid it a bit on the explosives, blasting the shaft for these columns. Some of our waste must have . . . fallen down here."

Holly was appalled. Pollution is an abomination to the People.

"You’ve broken so many laws here, Mulch, I don’t even have the fingers to count them. When you get that two-day head start, you’d better move fast, because I’m going to be the one chasing you."

"Here we are," said Mulch, ignoring the threat. When you’d heard as many as he had, they just rolled right off.

There was a hole bored into one of the columns. Mulch rubbed the edges fondly.

"Diamond laser cutter. Little nuclear battery. That baby could cut through anything."

"I remember that cutter too," said Root. "You nearly decapitated me with it once."

Mulch sighed. "Happy days, eh, Julius?"

Root’s reply was a swift kick in the behind.

"Less talk, more eating dirt, convict."

Holly placed her hand into the hole.

"Air currents. The pressure field from the city must have equalized this cave over the years. That’s why we’re not flat as manta rays right now."

"I see," said Butler and Root simultaneously. Another lie for the list.

Mulch undid his back flap.

"I’ll tunnel up to the top and wait for you there. Clear as much of the debris as you can. I’ll spread the recycled mud around, to avoid closing up the shaft."

Artemis groaned. The idea of crawling through Mulch’s recyclings was almost intolerable. Only the thought of his father kept him going.

Mulch stepped into the shaft. "Stand back," he warned, unhinging his jaw.

Butler moved quickly, he was not about to get nailed by dwarf gas again.

Mulch disappeared up to his waist in the titanium column. In moments he had disappeared entirely. The pipe began to shudder with strange, unappetizing sounds. Chunks of clay clattered against the metal walls. A constant stream of condensed air and debris spiraled from the hole.

"Amazing," breathed Artemis. "What I could do with ten like him. Fort Knox would be a pushover."

"Don’t even think about it," warned Root. He turned to Butler. "What have we got?"

The manservant drew his pistol.

"This is it. I’ll take the gun, since I’m the only one who can lift it. You two pick up whatever you can on the run."

"And what about me?" asked Artemis, even though he knew what was coming.

Butler looked his master straight in the eye.

"I want you to stay here. This is a military operation. All you can do is get yourself killed."

"But ..."

"My job is to protect you, Artemis, and this is quite possibly the safest spot on the planet."

Artemis didn’t argue. In truth, these facts had already occurred to him. Sometimes being a genius was a burden.

"Very well, Butler. I shall remain here. Unless . . ."

Butler’s eyes narrowed. "Unless what?"

Artemis smiled his dangerous smile. "Unless I have an idea."

Police Plaza

In Police Plaza the situation was desperate. Captain Kelp had pulled the remaining forces into a circle behind overturned workstations. The goblins were taking potshots through the doorway, and none of the warlocks had a drop of magic left in them. Anyone who got injured from now on would stay injured.

The Council were huddled behind a wall of troops, all except Wing Commander Vinyáya, who had demanded to be given one of the electronic rifles. She hadn’t missed yet.

The techs were crouched behind their desks, trying every code combination in the book to gain access to the Operations Booth. Trouble didn’t hold out much hope on that front. If Foaly locked a door, then it stayed locked.

Meanwhile, inside the booth all the centaur could do was pound his fists in frustration. It was a sign of Cudgeon’s cruelty that he allowed Foaly to view the battle beyond the blast windows.

It seemed hopeless. Even if Julius and Holly had received his message, it was too late now to do anything. Foaly’s lips and throat were dry. Everything had deserted him. His computer, his intellect, his glib sarcasm. Everything.

Below Koboi Labs

Something wet slapped Butler in the head.

"What was that?" he hissed at Holly, who was bringing up the rear.

"Don’t ask," croaked Captain Short. Even through her helmet filters, the smell was foul.

The contents of the column had had a century to ferment, and smelled as toxic as the day they went in. Probably worse. At least, thought the bodyguard, I don’t have to eat this stuff.

Root was in the lead, his helmet lights cutting swathes through the darkness. The pillar was on a forty-degree angle with regular grooves that were intended to anchor the titanium block filling.

Mulch had done a sterling job of breaking down the pipe’s contents. But the recycling had to go somewhere. Mulch, in fairness to him, chewed every mouthful thoroughly to avoid too many lumps.

The raiding party struggled on grimly, trying not to think about what they were actually doing. By the time they caught up with the dwarf, he was clinging to a ridge, face constricted in pain.

"What is it, Mulch?" asked Root, concern accidentally slipping into his tones.

"Geddup," Mulch groaned. "Geddup rih now."

Root’s eyes widened with something approaching panic.

"Up!" he hissed. "Everybody up!"

They scrambled into the tight wedge of space above the dwarf. Not a second too soon. Mulch relaxed, releasing a burst of dwarf gas that could have inflated a circus tent. He rehinged his jaw.

"That’s better," he sighed. "Lotta air in that soil. Now would you mind getting that beam out of my face. You know how I feel about light."

The commander obliged, switching to infrared.

"Okay, now we’re up here. How do we get out? You didn’t bring your cutter, I seem to remember."

The dwarf grinned. "No problem. A good thief always plans on a return visit. See here."

Mulch was pointing to a patch of titanium that seemed exactly like the rest of the pipe. "I patched this up last time. It’s just flexi-bond."

Root had to smile. "You are a cunning reprobate. How did we ever catch you?"

"Luck," replied the dwarf, elbowing a section of the pipe. A large circle popped out, revealing the hundred-year-old hole. "Welcome to Koboi Labs."

They clambered into a dimly lit corridor. Loaded hover trolleys were stacked four deep around the walls. Strip lighting operated at minimum illumination overhead.

"I know this place," noted Root. "I’ve been here before on inspection for the special weapons permits. We’re two corridors across from the computer center. We have a real chance of making it."

"What about these DNA stun cannons?" inquired Butler.

"Tricky," admitted the commander. "If the cannon’s onboard computer doesn’t recognize you, you’re dead. They can be programmed to reject entire species."

"Tricky," agreed the manservant.

"I’m betting they’re not active," continued Root. "First, if this place is crawling with goblins, they hardly came in through the front door. And second, if Foaly is being blamed for this little uprising, Koboi will want to pretend they had no weapons, just like the LEP."

"Strategy?" asked Butler.

"Not much," admitted the commander. "Once we turn the corner, we’re on camera. So down the corridor as fast as you can, hit anything that gets in your way. If it has a weapon, confiscate it. Mulch, you stay here and widen the tunnel, we may need to get out fast. Ready?"

Holly extended a hand.

"Gentlemen, it’s been a pleasure."

The commander and manservant laid their hands on hers.

"Likewise."

They headed down the corridor. Two hundred goblins versus our virtually unarmed three heroes. It was going to be close.

Koboi Labs, Inner Sanctum

"Intruders," squealed Opal Koboi delightedly. "Inside the building."

Cudgeon crossed to the surveillance plasma screen.

"I do believe it’s Julius. Amazing. Obviously your hit team leader was exaggerating, General Sputa."

Sputa licked his eyeballs furiously. Lieutenant Nyal would be losing his skin before shedding season.

Cudgeon whispered into Opal’s ear.

"Can we activate the DNA cannons?"

The pixie shook her head. "Not immediately. They’ve been reprogrammed to reject goblin DNA. It would take a few minutes."

Cudgeon turned to the four goblin generals. "Have an armored squad come up behind, and another one from the flank. We can trap them at the door. There will be no way out."

Cudgeon stared raptly at the plasma screen. "This is even better than I’d planned. Now, my old friend, Julius— it’s my turn to humiliate you."

Artemis was meditating. This was a time for concentration. He sat cross-legged on a rock, visualizing the various rescue strategies that could be used when they returned to the Arctic. If the Mafiya managed to set up the drop before Artemis could reach them, then there was only one plan that could work. And it was a high-risk plan. Artemis searched deeper inside his brain. There must be another way.

He was disturbed by an orchestral noise emanating from the titanium column. It sounded like a sustained note on a bassoon. Dwarf gas, he reasoned. The column had reasonably good acoustics.

What he needed was a brainwave. One crystal thought that would slice through this mire he had become embroiled in, and save the day.

After eight minutes, he was interrupted again. Not gas this time. A cry for help. Mulch was in trouble, and in pain.

Artemis was about to suggest that Butler deal with it when he realized that his bodyguard wasn’t there. Off on his mission to save the lower elements. It was up to him.

Artemis poked his head into the column. It was black as the inside of an old boot, and twice as pungent. Artemis decided that an LEP helmet was his first requirement. He quickly retrieved a spare from the shuttle, and after a moment’s experimentation activated the lights and seals.

"Mulch? Are you up there?"

No reply. Could this be a trap? Was it possible that he, Artemis Fowl, was about to fall for the oldest ruse in the book? Entirely possible, he decided. But in spite of that, he couldn’t really afford to take chances with that hairy little creature’s life. Somewhere since Los Angeles, and against his better judgment, he had bonded with Mister Diggums. Artemis shuddered. This propensity for humane impulses was happening more and more since his mother’s return to sanity.

Artemis climbed into the tube, beginning his journey to the disk of light above. The smell was horrendous. His shoes were ruined, and no amount of dry cleaning could redeem the Saint Bartleby’s blazer. Mulch had better be in a lot of pain.

When he reached the entrance, he found Mulch writhing on the floor, face contorted in genuine agony.

"What is it?" he asked, peeling off the helmet and kneeling by the dwarf’s side.

"Blockage in my gut," grunted the dwarf, beads of sweat sliding down his beard hairs. "Something hard. Can’t break it down."

"What can I do?" Artemis asked, though he dreaded the possible replies.

"My left boot. Take it off."

"Your boot? Did you say boot?"

"Yes," howled the dwarf, pain stiffening his entire torso. "Get it off!"

Artemis couldn’t stifle a relieved sigh. He’d been fearing much worse. He hefted the dwarf’s leg into his lap, pulling at the climbing boots.

"Nice boots," he commented.

"Rodeo Drive," gasped Mulch. "Now, if you wouldn’t mind."

"Sorry."

The boot slid off, revealing a not-quite-so-designer sock, complete with toe holes and darned patches.

"Little toe," said Mulch, eyes closed with pain.

"Little toe what?"

"Squeeze the joint. Hard."

Squeeze the joint. Must be a reflexology thing. Every part of the body corresponds to an area of the foot. The body’s keyboard so to speak. Practiced in the Orient for centuries.

"Very well. If you insist."

Artemis placed his finger and thumb around Mulch’s hairy toe. It could have been his imagination, but it seemed that the hairs parted to allow him access.

"Squeeze," gasped the dwarf. "Why aren’t you squeezing?"

Artemis wasn’t squeezing because his eyes were crossed, looking up at the end of the laser barrel stuck in the middle of his forehead.

Lieutenant Nyle, who was holding the weapon, couldn’t believe his luck. He’d single-handedly captured two intruders, plus he’d discovered their bolt hole. Who said hanging back to avoid the fighting didn’t have advantages? This was turning out to be an exceptional revolution for him. He’d be colonel before shedding his third skin.

"On your feet," he ordered, panting blue flames. Even through the translator it sounded reptilian.

Artemis stood slowly, lifting Mulch’s leg with him. The dwarf’s back flap flopped open.

"What’s wrong with him anyway?" asked Nyle, bending in for a closer look.

"Something he ate," said Artemis, and squeezed the joint.

The resulting explosion knocked the goblin off his feet, sending him tumbling down the corridor. There was something you didn’t see every day.

Mulch hopped to his feet.

"Thanks, kid. I thought I was a goner, there. Must’ve been something hard. Granite maybe, or diamond."

Artemis nodded. Not ready for words.

"Those goblins are dumb. Did you see the look on his face?"

Artemis shook his head. Still not ready.

"Do you want to go look?"

The tactless humor snapped Artemis out of his daze.

"That goblin. I doubt he was on his own."

Mulch buttoned up his back flap. "Nope. A whole squadron of ’em just went past. This guy must have been trying to avoid the action. Typical goblin."

Artemis rubbed his temples. There must be something he could do to help his friend. He had the highest tested IQ in Europe, for heaven’s sake.

"Mulch, I have an important question for you."

"I suppose I owe you one, for saving my hide."

Artemis draped an arm around the dwarf’s shoulder.

"I know how you got into Koboi Labs. But you couldn’t go back that way, the flare would have gotten you. So, how did you get out?"

Mulch grinned. "Simple, I activated the alarm, then left in the LEP uniform I came in."

Artemis scowled. "No, there must be another way. There has to be."

The DNA cannons were obviously out of commission. Root was just starting to feel optimistic when he heard the thunder of approaching boots.

"D’Arvit. You two keep going. I’ll hold them here as long as I can."

"No, Commander," said Butler. "With respect, we only have one weapon, and I can hit a lot more with it than you.

I’ll take them coming around the corner. You try to get the door open."

Holly opened her mouth to argue. But who was going to argue with a man that size?

"Okay. Good luck. If you’re wounded, lie as still as you can until I get back. Four minutes, remember."

Butler nodded. "I remember."

"And, Butler?"

"Yes, Captain?"

"That little misunderstanding last year. When you and Artemis kidnapped me."

Butler gazed at the ceiling. He would have stared at his shoes, but Holly was in the way.

"Yes, that. I’ve been meaning to talk to . . ."

"Just forget it. After this, all square."

"Holly, move it out," ordered Root. "Butler, don’t let them get too close."

Butler wrapped his fingers around the gun’s molded grip. He looked like an armed bear.

"They better not. For their sake."

Artemis climbed up on a hover trolley, tapping one of the overhead conduits that ran the length of the corridor.

"This pipe appears to run along the entire ceiling struc-ture. What is it, a ventilation system?"

Mulch snorted. "I wish. It’s the plasma supply for the DNA cannons."

"So why didn’t you come in this way?"

"Oh, a little matter of there being enough charge in every drop of plasma to fry a troll."

Artemis placed his palm against the metal.

"What if the cannons weren’t operational?"

"Once the cannons are deactivated, the plasma is just so much radioactive slop."

"Radioactive?"

Mulch tugged at his beard thoughtfully. "Actually, Julius reckons the cannons have been turned off."

"Any way to be certain?"

"We could open this unopenable panel." Mulch ran his fingers along the curved surface. "Ahh, see here. A micro keyhole. To service the cannons. Even plasma needs recharging."

He pointed to a tiny hole in the metal, which could have been a speck of dirt, it was so small.

"Now, observe a master at work."

The dwarf fed one of his chin hairs into the hole. When the tip reappeared, Mulch plucked the hair out by the root. The hair died as soon as Mulch plucked it, stiffening in rigor mortis, and retaining the precise shape of the lock’s interior.

Mulch held his breath, twisting the makeshift key. The hatch dropped open.

"That, my boy, is talent."

Inside the pipe, an orange jelly pulsed gently. Occasional sparks roiled in its depths. The plasma was too dense even to spill from the hatch, and retained its cylindrical shape.

Mulch squinted through the wobbling gel.

"Deactivated, all right. If that stuff was live, our faces would be getting a nice tan about now."

"What about those sparks?"

"Residual charge. They’d give you a bit of a tingle, but nothing serious."

Artemis nodded."Right,"he said, strapping on the helmet.

Mulch blanched. "You are not serious, Mud Whelp? Do you have any idea what will happen if those cannons are activated?"

"I’m trying not to think about it."

"It’s probably just as well." The dwarf shook his head bewildered. "Okay. You’ve got thirty yards to go, and no more than ten minutes of air in that helmet. Keep the filters closed, the air may get a bit stale after a while but it’s better than sucking plasma. And here, take this."He plucked the stiffened hair from the keyhole.

"What for?"

"I presume you will want to get out again at the other end. Or hadn’t you thought of that, Genius Boy?"

Artemis swallowed. He hadn’t. There was more to this heroism thing than rushing in blindly.

"Just feed it in gently, remember it’s hair, not metal."

"Feed it in gently. Got it."

"And don’t use any lights. Halogen could reactivate the plasma."

Artemis felt his head beginning to spin.

"And make sure you get foamed as soon as you can. The antirad canisters are blue. They’re everywhere in this facility."

"Blue canisters. Anything else, Mister Diggums?"

"Well, there are the plasma snakes. . . ."

Artemis’s knees almost collapsed. "You’re not serious?"

"No," Mulch conceded. "I’m not. Now, your reach is about one and a half feet. So calculate for sixty pulls and then get out of there."

"Slightly under one and a half feet I’d say. Perhaps sixty-three pulls." He placed the dwarf hair inside his breast pocket.

Mulch shrugged. "Whatever, kid. It’s your skin. Now, in you go."

The dwarf interlaced his fingers, and Artemis stepped into the makeshift stirrup. He was considering changing his mind when Mister Diggums heaved him into the plasma. The orange gel sucked him in, enveloping his body in a second.

The plasma coiled around him like a living being, popping bubbles of air trapped in his clothing. A residual spark brushed his leg, sending sharp pain through his body. A bit of a tingle?

Artemis gazed out through the orange gel. Mulch was there giving him the thumbs-up. Grinning like a loon. Artemis decided that if he made it through this lunacy, then he would have to place the dwarf on the payroll.

Artemis began to crawl blindly. One pull, two pulls . . . Sixty-three seemed a long way off.

Butler cocked his weapon. The footsteps were earsplitting now, bouncing off the metal walls. Shadows stretched around the corner, ahead of their owners. The manservant took approximate aim.

A head appeared. Froglike. Licking its own eyeballs. Butler pulled the trigger. The slug punched a melon-sized hole in the wall above the goblin’s head. The head was hurriedly withdrawn. Of course, Butler had missed on purpose. Scared was always better than dead. But it couldn’t last forever. Twelve more shots to be precise.

The goblins grew braver, sneaking out farther and farther. Eventually, Butler knew he would be forced to shoot one.

Butler decided that is was time to get to close quarters. He rose from his haunches, making slightly less noise than a panther, and hurtled down the corridor toward the enemy.

There were only two men on the planet better educated in the various martial arts than Butler, and he was related to one of them. The other lived on an island in the South China Sea, and spent his days meditating and beating up palm trees. You really had to feel sorry for the B’wa Kell.

The B’wa Kell had two guards on the sanctum door, both armed to the teeth and both thick as several short planks.

In spite of repeated warnings, they were both falling asleep inside their helmets when the elves came running around the corner.

"Look," mumbled one. "Elves."

"Huh?" said the other, the denser of the two.

"Don’t matter," said number one. "LEP don’t got no guns."

Number two gave his eyeballs a lick. "Yeah, but they sure are irritable."

And that was when Holly’s boot connected with his chest, slamming him into the wall.

"Hey," complained number one, bringing up his own gun. "No fair."

Root didn’t bother with fancy spinning kicks, preferring instead to body slam the sentry against the titanium door.

"There," panted Holly. "Two down. That wasn’t so hard."

A premature statement, as it happened. Because that was when the rest of the two-hundred-strong B’wa Kell squadron thundered down the perpendicular corridor.

"That wasn’t so hard," mimicked the commander, curling his fingers into fists.

Artemis’s concentration was failing him. There seemed to be more sparks now, and each shock disrupted his focus. He had lost count twice. He was at fifty-four now. Or fifty-six. The difference was life or death.

He crawled ahead, reaching out one arm and then the other, swimming through a turgid sea of gel. Vision was next to useless. Everything was orange. And the only confirmation he had that any progress was being made was when his knee sank into a recess, where the plasma diverted into a cannon.

Sixty-three. That was it. Artemis propelled himself one last time through the gel, filling his lungs with stale air. Soon the air purifiers in his helmet would be useless and he would be breathing carbon dioxide.

Artemis placed his fingertips against the pipe’s inner curve, searching for a keyhole. Again his eyes were no help. He couldn’t even activate the helmet lamps for fear of igniting a river of plasma.

Nothing. No indent. He was going to die here alone. He would never be great. Artemis felt his brain going, spiraling off into a black tunnel. Concentrate, he told himself. Focus. There was a spark approaching. A silver star in the sunset. It coiled lazily along the tube, illuminating each section it passed.

There! A hole. The hole, revealed for a moment by the passing spark. Artemis reached into his pocket like a drunken swimmer, pulling out the dwarf hair. Would it work? There was no reason this access port should have a different locking mechanism.

Artemis slid the hair into the keyhole. Gently. He squinted through the gel. Was it going in? He thought so. Perhaps sixty-percent sure. It would have to be enough.

Artemis twisted. The flap dropped open. He imagined Mulch’s grin. That, my boy, is talent.

It was quite possible that every enemy he had in the underworld was waiting outside that hatch, big nasty guns pointed at his head. At that point Artemis didn’t much care. He couldn’t bear one more of his own oxygen-depleted breaths or one more excruciating shock to his body.

So, Artemis Fowl poked his helmet through the plasma’s surface. He flipped the visor, savoring what could very well be his last breath. Lucky for him, the room’s occupants were looking at the view screen, watching his friends fight for their lives.

There are too many, thought Butler, rounding the corner to see a virtual army of B’wa Kell slotting fresh batteries into their weapons. The goblins, when they noticed him, began to think things like: Oh gods, it’s a troll in clothes! Or, Why didn’t I listen to Mom and stay out of the gangs?

Then Butler was above them, on the way down. He landed like the proverbial ton of bricks, but with considerably more precision. Three goblins were out cold before they knew they’d been hit. One shot himself in the foot, and several others lay down, pretending to be unconscious.

Artemis watched it all on the control room’s plasma screen, along with all the other occupants of the inner sanctum. It was entertainment to them. The goblin generals chuckled and winced as Butler decimated their men. It was all immaterial. There were hundreds of goblins in the building and no way into this room.

Artemis had seconds to decide on a course of action. Seconds. And he had no idea how to use any of this technology. He scanned the walls below him for something he could use. Anything.

There. On a small picture screen, away from the main console, was Foaly, trapped in the Operations Booth. The centaur would have a plan. He certainly had time to come up with one. Artemis knew that as soon as he emerged from the conduit, he was a target. They would kill him without hesitation.

Artemis dragged himself from within the tube, falling to earth with a thick slap. His saturated clothes slowed his progress to the monitor bank. Heads were turning, he could see them from the corner of his eye. Figures came his way. He didn’t know how many.

There was a reed mike below Foaly’s image. Artemis pressed the button.

"Foaly!" he rasped, globs of gel splatting onto the console. "Can you hear me?"

The centaur reacted instantly."Fowl? What happened to you?"

"Five seconds, Foaly. I need a plan or we’re all dead."

Foaly nodded curtly. "I’ve got one ready. Put me on all screens."

"What? How?"

"Press the conference button. Yellow. A circle with lines shooting out, like the sun. Do you see it?"

Artemis saw it. He pressed it. Then something pressed him. Very painfully.

General Scalene noticed the creature flopping from the plasma pipe. What was it? A pixie? No. No, by all the gods. It was human.

"Look!" he cackled. "A Mud Man."

The others were oblivious, too interested in the spectacle on screen. But not Cudgeon. A human in the inner sanctum. How could this be?

He seized Scalene by the shoulders. "Kill him quickly."

All the generals were listening now. There was killing to be done.

The human stumbled to one of the consoles, and they surrounded him, tongues dangling excitedly. Sputa spun the human around to face his fate.

One by one the generals conjured fireballs around their fists, closing in for the kill. But then something made them completely forget the injured human. Cudgeon’s face had appeared on all the screens. And the B’wa Kell executives didn’t like what it was saying.

"Just when things are at their most desperate, I shall instruct Opal to return weapons control to the LEP. The B’wa Kell will be rendered unconscious, and you will be blamed for the entire affair, providing you survive, which I doubt."

Sputa whirled on his ally.

"Cudgeon! What does this mean?"

The generals advanced, hissing and spitting.

"Treachery, Cudgeon! Treachery!"

Cudgeon was not unduly worried.

"Okay," he said. "Treachery."

It took Cudgeon a moment to figure out what had happened. It was Foaly. He must have recorded their conversation somehow. How tiresome. Still, you had to hand it to the centaur. He was resourceful.

Cudgeon quickly crossed to the main console, shutting off the broadcast. It wouldn’t do for Opal to hear the rest of it. Particularly the part concerning her tragic accident. He really would have to cut out this grandstanding. Still, no matter. Everything was on track.

"Treachery!" hissed Scalene.

"Okay," admitted Cudgeon again. "Treachery." And directly after that he said, "Computer, activate DNA cannons. Authorisation Cudgeon B. Alpha alpha two two."

On her hoverchair, Opal spun with sheer joy, clapping her tiny hands in delight. Briar was sooo ugly, but he was sooo evil.

Throughout Koboi Labs, robot DNA cannons perked up in their cradles and ran swift self-diagnostics. Apart from a slight drain in the inner sanctum, everything was in order. And so, without further ado, they began to obey their program parameters and target anything with goblin DNA at a rate of ten blasts per second.

It was swift, and as with everything Koboi, efficient. In less than five seconds the cannons settled back into their cradles. Mission accomplished: two hundred unconscious goblins throughout the facility.

"Phew," said Holly, stepping over rows of snoring goblins. "Close one."

"Tell me about it," agreed Root.

Cudgeon kicked Sputa’s sleeping body.

"You see, you haven’t accomplished anything, Artemis Fowl," he said, drawing his Redboy.

"Your friends are out there. You’re in here. And the goblins are unconscious, soon to be artificially mind-wiped with some particularly unstable chemicals. Just as I planned." He smiled at Opal hovering above them. "Just as we planned."

Opal returned the smile. At another time, Artemis would have been forced to pass a snide comment. But the possibility of imminent death was occupying his thoughts for the moment.

"Now, I simply reprogram the cannons to target your friends. Return power to the LEP cannons, and take over the world. And nobody can get in here to stop me."

Of course, you should never say something like that, especially when you’re an arch villain. It’s just asking for trouble.

* * *


Butler hurried down the corridor, catching up with the others outside the inner sanctum. He could see Artemis’s predicament through the door’s quartz pane. In spite of all his efforts, Master Artemis had still managed to place himself in mortal danger. How was a bodyguard supposed to do his job when his charge insisted on jumping into bear pits, so to speak?

Butler felt the testosterone building in his system. One door was all that separated him from Artemis. One little door, designed to withstand fairies with ray guns. He took several steps backward.

Holly could tell what he was thinking. "Don’t bother. That door is reinforced."

The manservant didn’t answer. He couldn’t. The real Butler was submerged beneath layers of adrenaline and brute force.

With a roar, Butler charged the entrance, concentrating all of his considerable might in the triangular point of his shoulder. It was a blow that would have felled a medium-sized hippopotamus. And while this door was tested for plasma dispersion and moderate physical resistance, it was certainly not Butler-proof. The metal portal crumpled like tinfoil.

Butler’s momentum took him half way across the inner sanctum’s rubber tiling. Holly and Root followed, pausing only to grab some softnose lasers.

Cudgeon moved fast, dragging Artemis upright.

"Don’t move, any of you, or I’ll kill the Mud Boy."

Butler kept right on going. His last rational thought had been to disable Cudgeon. Now this was his sole aim in life. He raced forward, arms outstretched.

Holly dived desperately, latching on to Butler’s belt. He dragged her like cans behind a wedding car.

"Butler, stop," she grunted.

The bodyguard ignored her. Holly hung on, digging in her heels.

"Stop!" she repeated, this time layering her voice with the mesmer.

Butler seemed to wake up. He shook the caveman from his system.

"That’s right, Mud Man," said Cudgeon. "Listen to Captain Short. Surely we can work something out here."

"No deals, Briar," said Root. "It’s all over, so just put the Mud Boy down."

Cudgeon cocked the Redboy. "I’ll put him down all right."

This was Butler’s worst nightmare. His charge was in the hands of a psychopath with nothing to lose. And there was nothing he could do about it.

Artemis’s phone rang.

"I think it’s mine," said Artemis automatically.

Another ring. Definitely his cell phone. Amazing the thing worked at all really, considering what it had been through.

Artemis ripped open the case.

"Yes?"

It was one of those frozen moments. Nobody knew what to expect.

Artemis tossed the handset at Opal Koboi. "It’s for you."

The pixie swooped low to catch the tiny cell phone. Cudgeon’s chest heaved. His body knew what was happening even if his brain hadn’t figured it out yet.

Opal placed the tiny speaker to her pointed ear.

"Really, Foaly," said Cudgeon’s voice. "Do you think I’d go to all this trouble to share power? Oh no, as soon as this charade is over, Miss Koboi will have a tragic accident. Perhaps several tragic accidents."

All color drained from Opal’s face.

"You!" she screeched.

"It’s a trick!" protested Cudgeon. "They’re trying to turn us against each other."

But his eyes told the real story.

Pixies are feisty creatures in spite of their size. They put up with only so much, and then they explode. For Opal Koboi, it was explosion time.

She manipulated the Hoverboy’s controls, dropping in a steep dive.

Cudgeon didn’t hesitate. He put two bursts into the chair, but the thick cushion protected its pilot. Opal Koboi flew straight at Cudgeon’s head.

When the elf raised his arms to protect himself, Artemis slid to the floor. Briar Cudgeon was not so lucky. He was borne aloft by the wildcat pixie, desperately pumping the Redboy’s trigger. Opal was past caring about the laser beam that grazed her ribs. Her sole aim in life was to destroy her treacherous partner.

They whirled around the chamber, ricocheting off several walls before crashing straight through the open plasma panel.

Unfortunately for Cudgeon, the plasma was now active. He had activated it himself. But this irony did not occur to him as he was fried by a million radioactive tendrils. Koboi was lucky. She was pitched from the hover-chair and lay moaning on the rubber tiles.

Butler was on the move before Cudgeon landed. He flipped Artemis over, checking his frame for wounds. A couple of scratches. Superficial. Nothing a shot of blue sparks wouldn’t take care of.

Holly checked Opal Koboi’s status.

"She conscious?" asked the commander.

Koboi’s eyes flickered open. Holly shut them with a swift rabbit punch to the forehead.

"Nope," she said innocently. "Out cold."

Root took one look at Cudgeon, and realized there was no point checking for vitals. Maybe he was better off. The alternative would have been a couple of centuries in Howler’s Peak.

Artemis noticed movement by the door. It was Mulch. He was grinning and waving. Waving good-bye, just in case Julius forgot about his two-day head start. The dwarf pointed to a blue canister mounted on a wall bracket, and he was gone.

"Butler," rasped Artemis, with the absolute last ounce of his strength. "Could someone spray me down? And then could we please go to Murmansk?"

Butler was mystified. "Spray? What spray?"

Holly unhooked the antirad foam canister, flipping the safety catch.

"Allow me," she grinned. "It would be my pleasure."

She directed a jet of foul-smelling foam at Artemis. In seconds he resembled a half-melted snowman. Holly laughed. Who said there were no perks in law enforcement?

Police Plaza, Operations Booth

Once the cannon plasma had short-circuited Cudgeon’s remote control, power came rushing back to the Operations Booth. Foaly lost no time in activating the subcutaneous sleepers planted below goblin offenders’ skin. That put half of the B’wa Kell out of action right away. Then he reprogrammed Police Plaza’s own DNA cannons for nonlethal bursts. It was all over in seconds.

Captain Kelp’s first thought was for his subordinates.

"Sound off!" he shouted, his voice slicing through the chaos. "Did we lose anyone?"

The squadron leaders answered in sequence, confirming that there had been no fatalities.

"We were lucky," remarked a warlock medic. "There’s not a drop of magic left in the building. Not even a medi-pac. The next officer to go down would have stayed down."

Trouble turned his attention to the Ops Booth. He did not look amused.

Foaly depolarized the quartz window, and opened a channel. "Hey, guys. I wasn’t behind this. It was Cudgeon. I just saved everyone. I sent a sound recording to a cell phone; that wasn’t easy. You should be giving me a medal."

Trouble clenched his fist. "Yeah, Foaly, come on out here and let me give you your medal."

Foaly may not have had many social skills, but he knew thinly veiled threats when he heard them.

"Oh, no. Not me. I’m staying right here until Commander Root gets here. He can explain everything."

The centaur blacked out the window and busied himself running a bug sweep. He would isolate every last trace of Opal Koboi and flush it out of the system. Paranoid, was he? Who was the paranoid one now, Holly? Who was the paranoid one now?





CHAPTER 14




FATHER’S DAY




Murmansk, Arctic Circle

The Arctic seascape between Murmansk and Severmorsk had become a submarine graveyard for Russia’s once mighty fleet. Easily a hundred nuclear submarines lay rusting among the coastline’s various inlets and fjords, with only the odd danger sign or roving patrol to warn off curious passersby. At night, you didn’t have to look too hard to see the glow, or listen too hard to hear the hum.

One such submarine was the Nikodim. A twenty-year-old Typhoon class with rusty pipes and a leaky reactor. Not a healthy combination. And it was here that the Mafiya kingpin, Britva, had instructed his lackeys to make the exchange for Artemis Fowl Senior.

Mikhael Vassikin and Kamar were none too happy with the situation. They had been bunked in the captain’s quarters for two days already, and were convinced their lives were growing shorter by the minute.

Vassikin coughed. "You hear that? My guts aren’t right. It’s the radiation, I’m telling you."

"This whole thing is ridiculous," snarled Kamar. "The Fowl boy is thirteen. Thirteen! He’s a baby. How can a child raise five million dollars? It’s crazy."

Vassikin sat up on his bunk. "Maybe not. I’ve heard stories about this one. They say he has powers."

Kamar snorted. "Powers? Magic? Oh, go stuff your head in the reactor, you old woman."

"No, I have a contact in Interpol. They have an active file on this boy. Thirteen years old and with an active file? I am thirty-seven, and still no Interpol file." The Russian sounded disappointed.

"An active file. What’s magic about that?"

"But my contact swears that this boy Fowl is sighted all over the world, on the same day. The same hour."

Kamar was unimpressed. "Your contact is a bigger coward than you are."

"Believe what you want. But I’ll be happy to get off this cursed boat alive. One way or the other."

Kamar pulled a fur cap down over his ears.

"Okay. Let’s go. It’s time."

"Finally," sighed Vassikin.

The two men collected the prisoner from the next cabin. They were not worried about an escape attempt. Not by a prisoner who had one leg missing and a hood secured over his head. Vassikin slung Fowl Senior over his shoulder and climbed the rungs to the conning tower.

Kamar used a radio to check in with the backup. There were more than a hundred criminals hiding among the petrified bushes and snowdrifts. Cigarette tips lit the night like fireflies.

"Put them out, idiots," he hissed over an open frequency. "It’s almost midnight. Fowl could be here any second. Remember, no one shoots until I give the order. Then everybody shoots."

You could almost hear the hiss as a hundred cigarette butts were flicked into the snow. A hundred men. It was a costly operation. But a mere drop in the ocean compared to the twenty percent promised them by Britva.

Wherever this boy Fowl came from, he would be trapped in a deadly crossfire. There was no way out for him or his father, while they were safe behind the steel conning tower. Kamar grinned. Let’s see how much magic you have then, Irlandskii.

Holly surveyed the scene through the hi-res night-sight filter in her helmet with the eyes of a seasoned Recon officer. Butler was stuck with plain old binoculars.

"How many cigarettes did you count?"

"More than eighty," replied the captain. "Could be up to a hundred men. You walk in there, and you’ll be carried out."

Root nodded in agreement. It was a tactical nightmare.

They were bivouacked on the opposite side of the fjord, high on a sloped hill. The Council had even approved wings, on account of Artemis’s recent services.

Foaly had done a mail retrieval from Artemis’s computer and found a message: Five million U.S. The Nikodim. Murmansk. Midnight on the fourteenth. It was short and to the point. What else was there to say? They had missed their opportunity to snatch Artemis Senior before he was moved to the drop point, and now the Mafiya were in control.

They gathered around while Butler sketched a diagram in the snow with a laser pointer.

"I would guess that the target is being held here, in the conning tower. To get there, you’ve got to walk all the way along the sub. They’ve got a hundred men hiding out around the perimeter. We have no air support. No satellite information and minimal weaponry." Butler sighed. "I’m sorry, Artemis. I just don’t see it."

Holly knelt to study the diagram. "A time-stop would take days to set up. We can’t shield either, because of the radiation, and there’s no way to get close enough to mesmerize."

"What about LEP weaponry?" asked Artemis, though he knew the answer.

Root chewed an unlit cigar. "We discussed this, Artemis. We have as much firepower as you like, but if we start blasting, your father will be their first target. Standard kidnapping rules."

Artemis pulled an LEP field parka closer to his throat, staring at the rough diagram. "And if we give them the money?"

Foaly had run them up five million in small bills on one of his old printers. He even had a squad of sprites crumple it up a bit.

Butler shook his head. "That’s not the way these people do business. Alive, Mister Fowl is a potential enemy. He has to die."

Artemis nodded slowly. There was absolutely no other way. He would have to implement the plan he had concocted in the Arctic shuttleport.

"Very well, everyone," he said. "I have a plan. But it’s going to sound a bit extreme."

Mikhael Vassikin’s cell phone rang, shattering the Arctic silence. Vassikin almost fell down the tower hatch.

"Da? What is it? I’m busy."

"This is Fowl," said a voice in flawless Russian, colder than Arctic pack ice. "It’s midnight. I’m here."

Mikhael swung around, scanning the surroundings through his binoculars.

"Here? Where? I don’t see anything?"

"Close enough."

"How did you get this number?"

A chuckle rattled through the speakers. The sound set Vassikin’s fillings on edge.

"I know someone. He has all the numbers."

Mikhael took deep breaths, settling himself. "Do you have the money?"

"Of course. Do you have the package?"

"Right here."

Again the cold chuckle. "All I see is a fat imbecile, a little rat, and someone with a hood over his head. It could be anyone. I’m not paying five million for your cousin Yuri."

Vassikin ducked below the lip of the tower. "Fowl can see us!" he hissed at Kamar. "Stay low."

Kamar scuttled to the far side of the tower, opening a line to his men. "He’s here. Fowl is here. Search the area."

Vassikin brought the phone back to his ear. "So come down here and check. You’ll see soon enough."

"I can see fine from right here. Just take the hood off."

Mikhael covered the phone. "He wants me to take the hood off. What should I do?"

Kamar sighed. Now it was becoming plain who was the brains in this outfit. "Take it off. What difference does it make? Either way they’re both dead in five minutes."

"Okay, Fowl. I’m taking off the hood. The next face you see will be your father’s." The big Russian propped up the prisoner high over the lip of the conning tower. He reached up with one hand and pulled off the rough sackcloth hood.

On the other end of the line, he heard a sharp intake of breath.

Through the filters of his borrowed LEP helmet, Artemis could see the conning tower as though it were three feet away. The hood came off, and he could not supress a sharp gasp.

It was his father. Different, certainly. But not beyond recognition. Artemis Fowl the First, without a shadow of a doubt.

"Well," said a Russian voice in his ear. "Is it him?"

Artemis struggled to stop his voice from shaking. "Yes," he said. "It is him. Congratulations. You have an item of some value."

In the conning tower, Vassikin gave his partner the thumbs-up.

"It’s him. We’re in the money."

Kamar didn’t share his confidence. There would be no celebrating until the cash was in his hand.

Butler steadied the fairy Farshoot rifle on its stand. He had selected it from the LEP armory. Fifteen hundred yards. Not an easy shot. But there was no wind, and Foaly had given him a scope that did the aiming for him. Artemis Fowl senior’s torso was centered in the crosshairs.

He took a breath."Artemis. Are you sure? This is risky."

Artemis did not reply, checking for the hundredth time that Holly was in position. Of course he wasn’t sure. A million things could go wrong with this deception, but what choice did he have?

Artemis nodded. Just once.

Butler fired the shot.

The shot caught Artemis Senior in the shoulder. He spun around, slumping over the startled Vassikin.

The Russian howled in disgust, heaving the bleeding Irishman over the lip of the conning tower. Artemis Senior slid along the keel, crashing through the brittle ice plates clinging to the sub’s hull.

"He shot him," yelped the khuligany. "That devil shot his own father."

Kamar was stunned.

"Idiot!" he howled. "You’ve just thrown our hostage overboard!" He peered into the black Arctic waters. Nothing remained of the Irlandskii but ripples.

"Go down and get him, if you wish," said Vassikin sullenly.

"Was he dead?"

His partner shrugged. "Maybe. He was bleeding badly. And if the bullet doesn’t finish him, the water will. Anyway, it’s not our fault."

Kamar swore viciously. "I don’t think Britva will see it that way."

"Britva," breathed Vassikin. The only thing the Menidzher understood was money.

"Oh, gods. We’re dead."

The cell phone rattled on the deck. The speaker was vibrating. Fowl was still on the other end. Mikhael picked up the mobile as though it were a grenade.

"Fowl? You there?"

"Yes," came the reply.

"You crazy devil! What are you doing? Your father is as good as dead. I thought we had a deal!"

"We still do. A new one. You can still make some money tonight."

Mikhael stopped panicking, and started paying attention. Could there possibly be a way out of this nightmare?

"I’m listening."

"The last thing I need is for my father to return and destroy what I have built up over the past two years."

Mikhael nodded. This made perfect sense to him.

"So he had to die. I had to see it done myself, just to be sure. But I could still leave you a little something."

Mikhael could barely breath. "A little something?"

"The ransom. All five million."

"And why would you do that?"

"You get the money; I get safe passage home. Fair enough?"

"Seems fair to me."

"Very well. Now look across the bay, above the fjord."

Mikhael looked. There was a flare burning, right at the snow-covered hill’s tip.

"There is a briefcase tied to that flare. It goes out in ten minutes. I’d get there before then if I were you. Otherwise the case could take years to find."

Mikhael didn’t bother to cut the connection. He just dropped the phone and ran.

"The money," he shouted at Kamar. "Up there. The flare."

Kamar was after him in a heartbeat, shouting instructions into the radio. Someone had to reach that money. Who cared about a drowning Irlandskii when there was five million dollars to be claimed?

Root pointed at Holly the moment Artemis Senior had been shot. "Go!" he ordered.

Captain Short activated her wings, launching herself off the hilltop. Of course what they were doing here was against all the regulations, but the Council was cutting Foaly a lot of slack having more or less convicted him of treason. The only conditions were that the centaur be in constant communication, and that every member of the party be fitted with remote incineration packs, so that they and all their fairy technology could be destroyed in the event of capture or injury.

Holly followed events on the submarine through her visor. She saw the shot hit Artemis Senior in the shoulder, knocking him against the larger Russian. Blood registered in her field of vision, still warm enough to be picked up by her thermal imager. Holly had to admit. It looked effective. Maybe Artemis’s plan could actually work. Maybe the Russians would be fooled. After all, humans generally saw what they wanted to see.

Then things went horribly wrong.

"He’s in the water!" shouted Holly into her helmet mike, opening the wing rig’s throttle to the max. "He’s alive, but not for long, unless we get him out."

Holly skimmed silently over the glistening ice, arms crossed over her chest for speed. She was moving too fast for human vision to pin her down. She could be a bird, or a seal breaking the waves. The submarine loomed before her.

On board the Nikodim, the Russians were evacuating, clambering down the tower ladder, feet slipping in their haste. And ashore, the same. Men breaking cover, crashing through the frosted undergrowth. The commander must have set the flare. Those Mud Men would be delirious to find their precious money, only to have it dissolve in seventy-two hours. That would just about give them time to deliver it to their boss. Odds were he wouldn’t be happy with disappearing cash.

Holly skimmed the sub’s keel, safe from radiation in her suit and helmet. At the last moment, she flipped upward, shielded from the northern shore by the conning tower. She popped the throttle, hovering above the ice hole where the human had fallen in. The commander was talking into her ear, but Holly didn’t reply. She had a job to do and no time for talk.

Fairies hate cold. They hate it. Some are so phobic about low temperatures that they won’t even eat ice cream. The last thing that Holly wanted to do right now was to put so much as a toe into that sub-zero, radioactive water. But what choice did she have? "D’Arvit!" she swore, and plunged into the water.

The microfilaments in her suit deadened the cold, but they could not dispel it entirely. Holly knew that she had seconds before the temperature drop slowed her reactions and sent her into shock.

Below her, the unconscious human was as pale as a ghost. Holly fumbled with her wing controls. A touch too much on the throttle could send her too deep; not enough, and she would fall short. And at these temperatures, she only had one shot only.

Holly hit the throttle. The engine buzzed once, sending her ten fathoms down. Perfect. She grabbed Fowl senior by the waist, quickly clipping him on to her Moonbelt. He hung there limply. He needed an infusion of magic, and the sooner the better.

Holly glanced upward. It seemed as though the ice hole was already closing. Was there anything else that could go wrong? The commander was shouting in her ear, but she shut him out, concentrating on getting back on dry land.

Ice crystals spun themselves across the hole like spiders’ webs. The ocean seemed determined to claim them.

I don’t think so, thought Holly, pointing her helmeted head at the surface, and opening the throttle as far as it would go.

They crashed through the ice, landing on the slatted surface of the sub’s forward deck. The human’s face was the color of the surrounding landscape. Holly crouched on his chest like a predatory creature, exposing the supposed wound to the night air. There was blood on the deck, but it was Artemis Junior’s own blood. They had pried the cap from a hydrosion shell, and half filled it with blood taken from Artemis’s arm. On impact the fizzer had knocked Artemis Senior off his feet, sending the crimson liquid spiraling through the air. Very convincing.

Of course, being thrown into the freezing waters had not been part of the plan.

The shell had not penetrated the skin, but Mister Fowl was not safe yet. Holly’s thermal imager showed that his heartbeat was dangerously slow and weak. Holly laid her hands on his chest.

"Heal," she whispered. "Heal."

And the magic scurried down her fingers.

Artemis couldn’t watch Holly’s rescue attempt. Had he done the right thing? What if the hydrosion shell had penetrated? How could he ever face his mother again?

"Oh, no," said Butler.

Artemis was at his side in an instant. "What is it?"

"Your father is in the water. The Russian threw him in."

The boy groaned. That water was as deadly as any bullet. He’d been afraid that something like this would happen.

Root had been following the rescue attempt. "Okay. She’s over the water. Can you see him, Holly?"

No answer. Just static in his earphones.

"Status, Captain? Respond."

Nothing.

"Holly?"

She’s not talking because it’s too late, thought Artemis.

There’s nothing she can do to save my father, and it’s all my fault.

Root’s voice cut through his thoughts.

"The Russians are evacuating," he said. "Holly’s at the sub now, over the hole in the ice. She’s going in. Holly, what have you got? Come on, Holly. Talk to me."

Nothing. For the longest time.

Then Holly erupted through the ice like a mechanized dolphin. She arced briefly through the Arctic night, crash landing on the Nikodim’s deck.

"She has your father," said the commander.

Artemis slipped on the spare Recon helmet, willing Holly’s voice to sound through the speakers. He magnified the picture in his visor until it seemed as though he could touch his father. Artemis watched Holly lean over his father’s chest, pulses of magic shooting down her fingers.

After several moments, Holly looked up, straight into Artemis’s eyes, as though she knew he was watching.

"I got him," she gasped. "One live Mud Man. He’s not pretty, but he’s breathing."

Artemis sank to the ground, sobs of relief shaking his thin shoulders. He cried for a whole minute. Then he was himself again.

"Well done, Captain. Now let’s get out of here before Foaly activates one of these incinerator packs by accident."

In the bowels of the earth, the centaur leaned back from his communications console.

"Don’t tempt me," he chuckled.





AN EPILOGUE, OR TWO





Tara

Artemis was heading back to Saint Bartleby’s. This was where he had to be when the Helsinki medical services identified his father from the suitably weathered passport Foaly had run up for him.

Holly had done her best for the injured man, healing his chest wound and even restoring sight to his blinded eye. But Artemis Senior needed prolonged medical attention, and it had to begin somewhere that could be rationally explained. So Holly had flown southwest to Helsinki, depositing the unconscious man at the doors of the University Hospital. One porter had spotted the flying patient, but he had been successfully mind-wiped.

When Artemis Senior regained consciousness, his the past two years would be a blur, and his most recent memory would be a happy one: bidding his family farewell at Dublin Harbor. Thanks again to Foaly and his mind-wiping technology.

"Why don’t I just move in with you?" the centaur had quipped when they returned to Police Plaza. "Do your ironing while I’m at it."

Artemis smiled. He had been doing that a lot lately. Even the parting with Holly had gone better than he could have expected, considering she’d seen him shoot his own father. Artemis shuddered. He anticipated many sleepless nights over that particular strategy.

The captain escorted them to Tara, slipping them out through a holographic hedge. There was even a holographic cow chewing the virtual leaves to throw humans off the fairy scent.

Artemis was back in his school uniform, which had been miraculously restored by the People’s technology. He sniffed his lapel.

"This blazer smells unusual," he commented. "Not unpleasant, but unusual."

"It’s completely clean," smiled Holly. "Foaly had to put it through three cycles in the machine to purge—"

"To purge the Mud Man from it," said Artemis.

"Exactly."

There was a full moon overhead, bright and pocked like a golf ball. Holly could feel its magic singing to her.

"Foaly said, in light of the help you’ve given us, he’s pulling the surveillance on Fowl Manor."

"That’s good to know," said Artemis "Is it the right decision?" Artemis considered it. "Yes. The People are safe from me." "Good. Because a large section of the Council wanted you mind-wiped. And with a chunk of memory that big, your IQ could take a bit of a dip." Butler extended a hand. "Well, Captain. I don’t suppose I’ll see you again." Holly shook it. "If you do, it’ll be too late." She turned toward the fairy fort. "I had better go. It will be light soon. I don’t want to be caught unshielded on a spy satellite. The last thing I need is my photo all over the Internet, not when I’ve just been reinstated at Recon."

Butler elbowed his employer gently. "Oh, Holly . . . eh, Captain Short." Eh? Artemis couldn’t believe he’d actually said eh. It wasn’t even a word. "Yes, Mud B . . . yes, Artemis?" Artemis looked Holly in the eye, just as Butler had instructed him to. This being civil business was more difficult than one would think. "I would like to ... I mean ...what I mean is ..." Another elbow from Butler. "Thank you. I owe you everything. Because of you I have my parents. And the way you flew that craft was nothing short of spectacular. And on the train . . . well, I could never have done what you . . ."

A third elbow. This time to stop the babbling. "Sorry. Well, you get the idea."

Holly’s elfin features wore a strange expression. Somewhere between embarrassment, and could it possibly be, delight? She recovered quickly.

"Maybe I owe you something too, human," she said, drawing her pistol. Butler almost reacted, but decided to give Holly the benefit of the doubt.

Captain Short plucked a gold coin from her belt, flicking it fifty feet into the moonlit sky. With one fluid movement, she brought her weapon up and loosed a single blast. The coin rose another fifty feet, then spun earthward. Artemis somehow managed to snatch it from the air. The first cool moment of his young life.

"Nice shot," he said. The previously solid disk now had a tiny hole in the center.

Holly held out her hand, revealing the still raw scar on her finger. "If it wasn’t for you, I would have missed altogether. No mech-digit can replicate that kind of accuracy. So, thank you too, I suppose."

Artemis held out the coin.

"No," said Holly. "You keep it, to remind you."

"To remind me?"

Holly stared at him frankly. "To remind you that deep beneath the layers of deviousness, you have a spark of decency. Perhaps you could blow on that spark occasionally."

Artemis closed his fingers around the coin. It was warm against his palm.

"Yes, perhaps."

A small two-seater plane buzzed overhead. Artemis glanced skyward, and when he looked back, Holly was gone. A slight heat haze hovered above the grass.

"Good-bye, Holly," he said softly.

The Bentley started on the first turn of the key. In less than an hour they arrived at Saint Bartleby’s main gate.

"Make sure your phone’s switched on," Butler said, holding the door. "The Helsinki officials should be getting the results of their trace from Interpol soon. Your father’s file has been reactivated in their mainframe, thanks, once again, to Foaly."

Artemis nodded, checking that his phone was activated. "Try to locate Mother and Juliet before the news comes through. I don’t want to be hunting through every spa in the south of France looking for them."

"Yes, Artemis."

"And check that my accounts are well hidden. No need for father to know exactly what I’ve been up to for the past two years."

Butler smiled. "Yes, Artemis."

Artemis took a few steps toward the school gates, then turned.

"And, Butler, one more thing. In the Arctic . . ."

Artemis couldn’t ask, but his bodyguard knew the answer anyway.

"Yes, Artemis," he said gently. "You did the right thing. It was the only way."

Artemis nodded, standing by the gates until the Bentley had disappeared down the avenue. From this moment on, life would be different. With two parents in the manor, his schemes would have to be much more carefully planned. Yes, he owed it to the People to leave them alone for a while, but Mulch Diggums—that was a different matter. So many secure facilities, so little time.

Counselor’s Office, Saint Bartleby’s School for Young Gentlemen

Not only was Dr. Po still employed at Saint Bartleby’s, but he seemed to have been fortified by his break from Artemis. His other patients were relatively straightforward cases of anger management, exam stress, and chronic shyness. And that was just the teachers.

Artemis settled onto the couch, taking care not to accidentally press the power button on his mobile.

Dr. Po nodded at his computer. "Dean Guiney forwarded me your e-mail. Charming."

"I’m sorry about that," muttered Artemis, surprised to find that he actually was sorry. Upsetting other people didn’t usually bother him. "I was in denial. So, I projected my anxieties onto you."

Po half chuckled. "Yes, very good. Just what it says in the book."

"I know," said Artemis. And he did know. Dr. F. Roy Dean Schlippe had contributed a chapter to that particular book.

Dr. Po laid down his pen, something he had never done before.

"You know, we still haven’t resolved that last issue."

"Which issue is that, Doctor?"

"The one we touched on at our last session. About respect?"

"Ah, that issue."

Po steepled his fingers. "I want you to pretend I’m as smart as you are, and give me an honest answer."

Artemis thought of his father, lying in a Helsinki hospital, of Captain Holly Short risking her life to help him, and, of course, of Butler, without whom he would never have made it out of Koboi Laboratories. He looked up, and found Dr. Po smiling at him.

"Well, young man, have you found anyone worthy of your respect?"

Artemis smiled back. "Yes," he said. "I believe I have."





Don’t miss the next thrilling adventure in the ARTEMIS FOWL series





THE ETERNITY CODE




ARTEMIS placed the shining box on the table.

"The future, Mr. Spiro. Ahead of schedule."

Jon Spiro leaned in, taking a good look. "Looks like a paperweight to me."

Arno Blunt snickered, his eyes taunting Butler.

"A demonstration, then," said Artemis, picking up the metal box. He pressed a button and the gadget purred into life. Sections slid back to reveal speakers and a screen.

"Cute," muttered Spiro. "I flew three thousand miles for a micro TV?"

Artemis nodded. "A micro TV. But also a verbally controlled computer, a mobile phone, a diagnostic aid. This little box can read any information on absolutely any platform, electronic or organic. It can play videos, laser disks, DVDs, go online, retrieve e-mail, hack any computer. It can even scan your chest to see how fast your heart’s beating. Its battery is good for two years, and of course it’s completely wireless."

Artemis paused, to let it sink in.

Spiro’s eyes grew huge behind his spectacles.

"You mean, this box . . ."

"Will render all other technology obsolete. Your computer plants will be worthless."

The American took several deep breaths.

"But how . . . how?"

Artemis flipped the box over. An infrared sensor pulsed gently on the back.

"This is the secret. An omni-sensor. It can read anything you ask it to. And if the source is programmed in, it can piggyback on any satellite you choose."

Spiro wagged a finger. "But that’s illegal, isn’t it?"

"No, no." Artemis smiled. "There are no laws against something like this. And there won’t be for at least two years after it comes out. Look how long it took to shut down Napster."

The American rested his face in his hands. It was too much.

"I don’t understand. This is years, no decades, ahead of anything we have now. You’re nothing but a thirteen-year-old kid. How did you do it?"

Artemis thought for a second. What was he going to say? That sixteen months ago Butler had taken on a Lower Elements Police Retrieval Squad and confiscated their fairy technology? Then he had taken the components and built this wonderful box? Hardly.

"Let’s just say I’m a very smart boy, Mr. Spiro."

Spiro’s eyes narrowed. "Maybe not as smart as you’d like us to think. I want a demonstration."

"Fair enough." Artemis nodded. "Do you have a mobile phone?"

"Naturally." Spiro placed his cell phone on the table. It was the latest Fission Chips model.

"Secure, I take it?"

Spiro nodded arrogantly. "Five-hundred-bit encryption. Best in its class. You’re not getting into the Fission 400 without a code."

"We shall see."

Artemis pointed the sensor at the handset. The screen instantly displayed an image of the cell phone’s workings.

"Download?" inquired a metallic voice from the speaker.

"Confirm."

In less than a second, the job was done.

"Download complete," said the box, with a hint of smugness.

Spiro was aghast. "I don’t believe it. That system cost twenty million dollars."

"Worthless," said Artemis, showing him the screen. "Would you like to call home? Or maybe move some funds around? You really shouldn’t keep your bank account numbers on a SIM card."

The American thought for several moments.

"It’s a trick," he pronounced finally. "You must’ve known about my phone. Somehow, don’t ask me how, you got access to it earlier."

"That is logical," admitted Artemis. "It’s what I would suspect. Name your test."

Spiro cast his eyes around the restaurant, fingers drumming the tabletop.

"Over there," he said finally, pointing to a video shelf above the bar. "Play one of those tapes."

"That’s it?"

"It’ll do, for a start."

Arno Blunt made a huge show of flicking through the tapes, eventually selecting one without a label. He slapped it down on the table, bouncing the engraved silver cutlery half an inch into the air.

Artemis resisted the urge to roll his eyes, placing the blue box directly onto the tape’s surface.

An image of the cassette’s innards appeared on the tiny plasma screen.

"Download?" asked the box.

Artemis nodded. "Download, compensate, and play."

Again the operation was completed in under a second. An old episode of an English soap crackled into life.

"DVD quality," commented Artemis. "Regardless of the input. The C Cube will compensate."

"The what?"

"C Cube," repeated Artemis. "The name I have given my little box. A tad obvious, I admit. But appropriate. The cube that sees everything."

Spiro snatched the videocassette.

"Check it," he ordered, tossing the tape to Arno Blunt.

The bleached-blond bodyguard activated the bar’s TV, sliding the video into its slot. Coronation Street flickered across the screen. The same show. Nowhere near the same quality.

"Convinced?" asked Artemis.

The American tinkered with one of his many bracelets. "Almost. One last test. I have a feeling that the government is monitoring me. Could you check it out?"

Artemis thought for a moment, then held the omnisensor close to his mouth. "Cube. Do you read any surveillance beams concentrated on this building?"

The machine whirred for a moment.

"The strongest ion beam is eighty kilometers due west. Emanating from U.S. satellite, code number ST1132W. Registered to the Central Intelligence Agency. Estimated time of arrival, eight minutes. There are also several LEP probes connected to . . ."

Artemis hit the mute button before the cube could continue. Obviously the computer’s fairy components could pick up Lower Elements technology too. He would have to remedy that. In the wrong hands that information would be devastating to fairy security.

"What’s the matter, kid? The box was still talking. Who are the LEP?"

Artemis shrugged. "No pay, no play, as you Americans say. One example is enough. The CIA, no less."

"The CIA," breathed Spiro. "They suspect me of selling military secrets. They’ve pulled one of their birds out of orbit, just to track me."

"Or perhaps me," noted Artemis.

"Perhaps you," agreed Spiro. "You’re looking more dangerous by the second."

Arno Blunt chuckled derisively. Butler ignored it. One of them had to be professional.

Spiro cracked his knuckles, a habit Artemis detested.

"We’ve got eight minutes, so let’s get down to the nitty-gritty, kid. How much for the box?"

Artemis was not paying attention, distracted by the LEP information that the Cube had almost revealed. In a careless moment, he had nearly exposed his subterranean friends to exactly the kind of man who would exploit them.

"I’m sorry, what did you say?"

"I said how much for the box?"

"First, it’s a cube," corrected Artemis. "And second, it’s not for sale."

Jon Spiro took a deep shuddering breath. "Not for sale? You brought me across the Atlantic to show me something you’re not going to sell me? What’s going on here?"

Butler wrapped his fingers around the handle of a pistol in his waistband. Arno Blunt’s hand disappeared behind his back. The tension cranked up another notch.

Artemis steepled his fingers. "Mr. Spiro. Jon. I am not a complete idiot. I realize the value of my Cube. There is not enough money in the world to pay for this particular item.

Whatever you could give me, the Cube would be worth a thousand percent more in a week."

"So what’s the deal, Fowl?" asked Spiro through gritted teeth. "What are you offering?"

"I’m offering you twelve months. For the right price, I’m prepared to keep my Cube off the market for a year."

Jon Spiro toyed with his ID bracelet. A birthday present to himself. "You’ll suppress the technology for a year?"

"Correct. That should give you ample time to sell your stocks before they crash, and use the profits to buy into Fowl Industries."

"There is no Fowl Industries."

Artemis smirked. "There will be."

Butler squeezed his employer’s shoulder. It was not a good idea to bait a man like Jon Spiro.

But Spiro hadn’t even noticed the gibe. He was too busy calculating, twisting his bracelet like a string of worry beads.

"Your price?" he asked eventually.

"Gold. One metric ton," replied the heir to the Fowl estate.

"That’s a lot of gold."

Artemis shrugged. "I like gold. It holds its value. And anyway, it’s a pittance compared to what this deal will save you."

Spiro thought about it. At his shoulder, Arno Blunt continued staring at Butler. The Fowl bodyguard blinked freely. In the event of confrontation, dry eyeballs would only lessen his advantage. Staring matches were for amateurs.

"Let’s say I don’t like your terms," said Jon Spiro. "Let’s say I decide to take your little gadget with me right now."

Arno Blunt’s chest puffed out another inch.

"Even if you could take the Cube"—Artemis smiled— "it would be of little use to you. The technology is beyond anything your engineers have ever seen."

Spiro smiled a thin, mirthless smile. "Oh, I’m sure they could figure it out. Even if it took a couple of years, it won’t matter to you. Not where you’re going."

"If I go anywhere, then the C Cube’s secrets go with me. It’s every function is coded to my voice patterns. It’s quite a clever code."

Butler bent his knees slightly, ready to spring.

"I bet we could break that code. I got one helluva team assembled at Fission Chips."

"Pardon me if I am unimpressed by your ‘one helluva team,’"said Artemis."Thus far you have been trailing several years behind Phonetix."

Spiro jumped to his feet. He did not like the P-word. Phonetix was the only communications company whose stock was higher than Fission Chips.

"Okay, kid, you’ve had your fun. Now it’s my turn. I have to go now, before the satellite beam gets here. But I’m leaving Mr. Blunt behind." He patted his bodyguard on the shoulder. "You know what you have to do."

Blunt nodded. He knew. He was looking forward to it.

For the first time since the meeting began, Artemis forgot about his lunch and concentrated completely on the situation at hand. This was not going according to plan.

"Mr. Spiro. You cannot be serious. We are in a public place, surrounded by civilians. Your man cannot hope to compete with Butler. If you persist with these ludicrous threats, I will be forced to withdraw my offer and release the C Cube immediately."

Spiro placed his palms on the table. "Listen, kid," he whispered. "I like you. In a couple of years, you could have been just like me. But did you ever put a gun to somebody’s head and pull the trigger?"

Artemis didn’t reply.

"No?" grunted Spiro. "I didn’t think so. Sometimes that’s all it takes. Guts. And you don’t have them."

Artemis was at a loss for words. Something that had only happened twice since his fifth birthday. Butler stepped in to fill the silence. Unveiled threats were more his area.

"Mr. Spiro. Don’t try to bluff us. Blunt may be big, but I can snap him like a twig. Then there’s nobody between me and you. And take my word for it, you don’t want that."

Spiro’s smile spread across his nicotine-stained teeth like a smear of treacle. "Oh, I wouldn’t say there’s nobody between us."

Butler got that sinking feeling. The one you get when there are a dozen laser sights playing across your chest.

They had been set up. Somehow Spiro had outmaneuvered Artemis.

"Hey, Fowl?" said the American. "I wonder how come your lunch is taking so long."

It was at that moment that Artemis realized just how much trouble they were in.


PROLOGUE





This article was posted on the fairy Internet, on the site www.horsesense.gnom. It is believed that this site is maintained by the centaur Foaly, technical consultant to the Lower Elements Police, although this has never been proved. Almost every detail of the following account contradicts the official release from the LEP Press Office.

We’ve all heard the official explanation for the tragic events surrounding the Zito Probe investigation. The LEP’s statement contained little in the way of concrete detail, preferring to fudge the facts and question the decisions of a certain female officer.

I know for an absolute fact that the officer in question, Captain Holly Short, behaved in an exemplary manner, and if it had not been for her skill as a field operative, many more lives would have been lost. Instead of scapegoating Captain Short, the Lower Elements Police should give her a medal.

Humans are at the center of this particular case. Most humans aren’t smart enough to find the leg holes in their trousers, but there are certain Mud Men clever enough to make me nervous. If they discover the existence of an underground fairy city, they will certainly do their best to exploit the residents. Most men would be no match for superior fairy technology, but there are some humans who are almost smart enough to pass as fairies. One human in particular. I think we all know who I’m talking about.

In fairy history only one human has bested us. And it really sticks in my hoof that this particular human is little more than a boy. Artemis Fowl, the Irish criminal mastermind.

Little Arty led the LEP in a merry dance across the continents, until finally, they used fairy technology to wipe the knowledge of our existence from his mind. But even as the gifted centaur Foaly pressed the mind-wipe button, he wondered if the Fairy People were being fooled again. Had the Irish boy left something behind to make himself remember? Of course he had, as we were all to find out later.

Artemis Fowl does play a significant role in the following events, but for once he was not trying to steal from the People, as he had completely forgotten we existed. No, the mastermind behind this episode is actually a fairy.

So, who is involved in this tragic tale of two worlds? Who are the main fairy players? Obviously, Foaly is the real hero of the piece. Without his innovations, the LEP would soon be beating the Mud Men back from our doors. He is the unsung hero who solves riddles of the ages, while the Reconnaissance and Retrieval teams swan about aboveground taking all the glory.

Then there’s Captain Holly Short, the officer whose reputation is under fire. Holly is one of the LEP’s best and brightest. A natural-born pilot with a gift for improvisation in the field. She’s not the best at taking orders, a trait that has landed her in trouble on more than one occasion. Holly was the fairy at the center of all the Artemis Fowl incidents. The pair had almost become friends, when the Council ordered the LEP to mind-wipe Artemis, and just when he was becoming a nice Mud Boy, too.

As we all know, Commander Julius Root had a role in the proceedings. The youngest-ever full commander in the LEP. An elf who had steered the People through many a crisis. Not the easiest fairy to get along with, but sometimes the best leaders do not make the best friends.

I suppose Mulch Diggums deserves mention. Until recently, Mulch was imprisoned, but he had once again managed to wriggle his way out. This kleptomaniac, flatulent dwarf has played a reluctant part in many of the Fowl adventures. But Holly was glad to have his help on this mission. If not for Mulch and his bodily functions, things could have turned out a lot worse than they did. And they turned out badly enough.

At the very center of this case lies Opal Koboi, the pixie who bankrolled the goblin gang’s attempted takeover of Haven City.

Opal had been facing a lifetime behind laser bars. That is, if she ever recovered from the coma that had claimed the pixie when Holly Short foiled her plan.

For almost a year, Opal Koboi had languished in the padded-cell wing of the J. Argon Clinic, showing no response to the medical warlocks who tried to revive her. In all that time, she spoke not a single word, ate not a mouthful of food, and exhibited no response to stimuli. At first the authorities were suspicious. It is an act! they declared. Koboi is faking catatonia to avoid prosecution. But as the months rolled by, even the most skeptical were convinced. No one could pretend to be in a coma for almost a year. Surely not. A fairy would have to be totally obsessed. . . .





CHAPTER 1

TOTALLY OBSESSED





The J. Argon Clinic, Haven City,

The Lower Elements; Three Months Earlier

The J. Argon Clinic was not a state hospital. Nobody stayed there for free. Argon and his staff of psychologists only treated fairies who could afford it. Of all the clinic’s wealthy patients, Opal Koboi was unique. She had set up an emergency fund for herself more than a year before she was committed, just in case she ever went insane and needed to pay for treatment. It was a smart move. If Opal hadn’t set up the fund, her family would undoubtedly have moved her to a cheaper facility. Not that the facility itself made much difference to Koboi, who had spent the past year drooling and having her reflexes tested. Dr. Argon doubted if Opal would have noticed a bull troll beating its chest before her.

The fund was not the only reason why Opal was unique. Koboi was the Argon Clinic’s celebrity patient. Following the attempt by the B’wa Kell goblin triad to seize power, Opal Koboi’s name had become the most infamous four syllables under the world. After all, the pixie billionairess had formed an alliance with disgruntled LEP officer Briar Cudgeon, and funded the triad’s war on Haven. Koboi had betrayed her own kind, and now her own mind was betraying her.

For the first six months of Koboi’s incarceration, the clinic had been besieged by media filming the pixie’s every twitch. The LEP guarded her cell door in shifts, and every staff member in the facility was treated to background checks and stern glares. Nobody was exempt. Even Dr. Argon himself was subjected to random DNA swabs to ensure that he was who he said he was. The LEP wasn’t taking any chances with Koboi. If she escaped from Argon’s Clinic, not only would they be the laughingstock of the fairy world, but a highly dangerous criminal would be unleashed on Haven City.

But as time went by, fewer camera crews turned up at the gates each morning. After all, how many hours of drooling can an audience be expected to sit through? Gradually, the LEP crews were downsized from a dozen to six and finally to a single officer per shift. Where could Opal Koboi go? the authorities reasoned. There were a dozen cameras focused on her, twenty-four hours a day.

There was a subcutaneous seeker-sleeper under the skin of her upper arm, and she was DNA swabbed four times daily. And even if someone did get Opal out, what could they do with her? The pixie couldn’t even stand without help, and the sensors said her brain waves were little more than flat lines.

That said, Dr. Argon was very proud of his prize patient, and mentioned her name often at dinner parties. Since Opal Koboi had been admitted to the clinic, it had become almost fashionable to have a relative in therapy. Almost every family on the rich list had a crazy uncle in the attic. Now that crazy uncle could receive the best of care in the lap of luxury.

If only every fairy in the facility was as docile as Opal Koboi. All she needed was a few intravenous tubes and a monitor, which had been more than paid for by her first six months’ medical fees. Dr. Argon fervently hoped that little Opal never woke up. Because once she did, the LEP would haul her off to court. And when she had been convicted of treason her assets would be frozen, including the clinic’s fund. No, the longer Opal’s nap lasted, the better for everyone, especially her. Because of their thin skulls and large brain volume, pixies were susceptible to various maladies, such as catatonia, amnesia, and narcolepsy. So it was quite possible that her coma would last for several years. And even if Opal did wake up, it was quite possible that her memory would stay locked up in some drawer in her huge pixie brain.

Dr. J. Argon did his rounds every night. He didn’t perform much hands-on therapy anymore, but he felt that it was good for the staff to feel his presence. If the other doctors knew that Jerbal Argon kept his finger on the pulse, then they were more likely to keep their own fingers on that pulse, too.

Argon always saved Opal for last. It calmed him somehow to see the small pixie asleep in her harness. Often at the end of a stressful day, he even envied Opal her untroubled existence. When it had all become too much for the pixie, her brain had simply shut down, all except for the most vital functions. She still breathed, and occasionally the monitors registered a dream spike in her brain waves. But other than that, for all intents and purposes, Opal Koboi was no more.

On one fateful night, Jerbal Argon was feeling more stressed than usual. His wife was suing for divorce on the grounds that he hadn’t said more than six consecutive words to her in over two years. The Council was threatening to pull his government grant because of all the money he was making from his new celebrity clients, and he had a pain in his hip that no amount of magic could seem to cure. The warlocks said it was probably all in his head. They seemed to think that was funny.

Argon limped down the clinic’s eastern wing, checking the plasma chart of each patient as he passed their room. He winced each time his left foot touched the floor.

The two janitor pixies, Mervall and Descant Brill were outside Opal’s room, picking up dust with static brushes. Pixies made wonderful employees. They were methodical, patient, and determined. When a pixie was instructed to do something, you could rest assured that that thing would be done. Plus, they were cute, with their baby faces and disproportionately large heads. Just looking at a pixie cheered most people up. They were walking therapy.

"Evening, boys," said Argon. "How’s our favorite patient?"

Merv, the elder twin, glanced up from his brush. "Same old, same old, Jerry," he said. "I thought she moved a toe earlier, but it was just a trick of the light."

Argon laughed, but it was forced. He did not like to be called Jerry. It was his clinic after all; he deserved some respect. But good janitors were like gold dust, and the Brill brothers had been keeping the building spotless and shipshape for nearly two years now. The Brills were almost celebrities themselves. Twins were very rare among the People. Mervall and Descant were the only pixie pair currently residing in Haven. They had been featured on several TV programs, including Canto, PPTV’s highest-rated chat show.

LEP’s Corporal Grub Kelp was on sentry duty. When Argon reached Opal’s room, the corporal was engrossed in a movie on his video goggles. Argon didn’t blame him. Guarding Opal Koboi was about as exciting as watching toenails grow.

"Good film?" inquired the doctor pleasantly.

Grub raised the lenses. "Not bad. It’s a human Western. Plenty of shooting and squinting."

"Maybe I’ll borrow it when you’re finished?"

"No problem, doctor. But handle it carefully. Human disks are very expensive. I’ll give you a special cloth."

Argon nodded. He remembered Grub Kelp now. The LEP officer was very particular about his possessions. He had already written two letters of complaint to the clinic board about a protruding floor rivet that had scratched his boots.

Argon consulted Koboi’s chart. The plasma screen on the wall displayed a constantly updated feed from the sensors attached to her temples. There was no change, nor did he expect there to be. Her vitals were all normal, and her brain activity was minimal. She’d had a dream earlier in the evening but now her mind had settled. And finally, as if he needed telling, the seeker-sleeper implanted in her arm informed him that Opal Koboi was indeed where she was supposed to be. Generally, the seeker-sleepers were implanted in the head, but pixie skulls were too fragile for any local surgery.

Jerbal punched in his personal code on the reinforced door’s keypad. The heavy door slid back to reveal a spacious room with gently pulsing floor mood lights. The walls were soft plastic, and gentle sounds of nature spilled from recessed speakers. At the moment a brook was splashing over flat rocks.

In the middle of the room, Opal Koboi hung suspended in a full body harness. The straps were gel padded and they adjusted automatically to any body movement. If Opal did happen to wake, the harness could be remotely triggered to seal like a net, preventing her from harming herself or escaping.

Argon checked the monitor pads, making sure they had good contact on Koboi’s forehead. He lifted one of the pixie’s eyelids, shining a pencil light at the pupil. It contracted slightly, but Opal did not avert her eyes.

"Well, anything to tell me today, Opal?" asked the doctor softly. "An opening chapter for my book?"

Argon liked to talk to Koboi, just in case she could hear. When she woke up, he reasoned, he would have already established rapport.

"Nothing? Not a single insight?"

Opal did not react. As she hadn’t for almost a year.

"Ah well," said Argon, swabbing the inside of Koboi’s mouth with the last cotton ball in his pocket. "Maybe tomorrow, eh?"

He rolled the cotton ball across a sponge pad on his clipboard. Seconds later, Opal’s name flashed up on a tiny screen.

"DNA never lies," muttered Argon, tossing the ball into a recycling bin.

With one last look at his patient, Jerbal Argon turned toward the door.

"Sleep well, Opal," he said almost fondly.

He felt calm again, the pain in his hip almost forgotten. Koboi was as far under as she had ever been. She wasn’t going to wake up any time soon. The Koboi fund was safe.

It’s amazing just how wrong one gnome can be.

Opal Koboi was not catatonic, but neither was she awake. She was somewhere in between, floating in a liquid world of meditation, where every memory was a bubble of multicolored light popping gently in her consciousness.

Since her early teens Opal had been a disciple of Gola Schweem, the cleansing coma guru. Schweem’s theory was that there was a deeper level of sleep than experienced by most fairies. The cleansing coma state could usually only be reached after decades of discipline and practice. Opal had reached her first cleansing coma at the age of fourteen.

The benefits of the cleansing coma were that a fairy could spend the sleep time thinking, or in this case, plotting, and also awake feeling completely refreshed. Opal’s coma was so complete that her mind was almost entirely separated from her body. She could fool the sensors, and felt no embarrassment at the indignities of intravenous feeding and assisted bathings. The longest recorded consciously self-induced coma was forty-seven days. Opal had been under for eleven months and counting, though she wasn’t planning to be counting much longer.

When Opal Koboi had joined forces with Briar Cudgeon and his goblins, she had realized that she would need a backup plan. Their scheme to overthrow the LEP had been ingenious, but there had always been a chance that something could go wrong. In the event that it did, Opal had had no intention of spending the rest of her life in prison. The only way she could make a clean getaway was if everybody thought she was still locked up. So Opal had begun to make preparations.

The first had been to set up the emergency fund for the Argon Clinic. This would ensure that she would be sent to the right place if she had to induce a cleansing coma. The second step had been to get two of her most trusted personnel installed in the clinic, to help with her eventual escape. Then she began siphoning huge amounts of gold from her businesses. Opal did not wish to become an impoverished exile.

The final step had been to donate some of her own DNA, and green-light the creation of a clone that would take her place in the padded cell. Cloning was completely illegal, and had been banned by fairy law for more than five hundred years, since the first experiments in Atlantis. Cloning was by no means a perfect science. Doctors had never been able to create an exact fairy clone. The clones looked fine, but they were basically shells with only enough brain power to run the body’s basic functions. They were missing the spark of true life. A fully grown clone resembled nothing more than the original person in a coma. Perfect.

Opal had had a greenhouse lab constructed far from Koboi Industries, and had diverted enough funds to keep the project active for two years: the exact time it would take to grow a clone of herself to adulthood. Then, when she wanted to escape from the Argon Clinic, a perfect replica of herself would be left in her place. The LEP would never know she was gone.

As things had turned out, she had been right to plan ahead. Briar had proved treacherous, and a small group of fairies and humans had ensured that his betrayal would lead to her own downfall. Now Opal had a goal to bolster her willpower. She would maintain this coma for as long as it took, because there was a score to be settled. Foaly, Root, Holly Short, and the human Artemis Fowl. They were the ones responsible for her defeat. Soon she would be free of this clinic, and then she would visit those who had caused her such despair and give them a little despair of their own. Once her enemies were defeated she could proceed with the second phase of her plan: introducing the Mud Men to the People in a way that could not be covered up by a few mind wipes. The secret life of fairies was almost at an end.

Opal Koboi’s brain released a few happy endorphins. The thought of revenge always gave her a warm fuzzy feeling.

The Brill brothers watched Dr. Argon limp up the corridor.

"Moron," muttered Merv, using his telescopic vacuum pole to chase some dust out of a corner.

"You said it," agreed Scant. "Old Jerry couldn’t analyze a bowl of vole curry. No wonder his wife is leaving him. If he was any good as a shrink, he would’ve seen that coming."

Merv collapsed the vacuum. "How are we doing?"

Scant checked his moonometer. "Ten past eight."

"Good. How’s Corporal Kelp?"

"Still watching the movie. This guy is perfect. We have to go tonight. The LEP could send someone smart for the next shift. And if we wait any longer the clone will grow another inch."

"You’re right. Check the spy cameras."

Scant lifted the lid on what appeared to be a janitor’s trolley, festooned as it was with mops, rags, and sprays. Hidden beneath a tray of vacuum nozzles, was a color monitor split into several screens.

"Well?" hissed Merv.

Scant did not answer immediately, taking time to check all the screens. The video feed was from various microcameras that Opal had installed around the clinic before her incarceration. The spy cameras were actually genetically engineered organic material. So the pictures they sent were literally a live feed. The world’s first living machines. Totally undetectable by bug sweepers.

"Night crew only," he said at last. "Nobody in this sector except Corporal Idiot over there."

"What about the parking lot?"

"Clear."

Merv held out his hand. "Okay, brother. This is it. No turning back. Are we in? Do we want Opal Koboi back?"

Scant blew a lock of black hair from one round pixie eye.

"Yes, because if she comes back on her own, Opal will find a way to make us suffer," he said, shaking his brother’s hand. "So yes, we’re in."

Merv took a remote control from his pocket. The device was tuned to a sonix receiver planted in the clinic’s gable wall. This in turn was connected to a balloon of acid that lay gently on the clinic’s main power cube in the parking lot junction box. A second balloon sat atop the backup cube in the maintenance basement. As the clinic’s janitors, it had been a simple matter for Merv and Scant to plant the acid balloons the previous evening. Of course, the Argon Clinic was also connected to the main grid, but if the cubes did go down, there would be a two-minute interval before the main power kicked in. There was no need for more elaborate arrangements; after all, this was a medical facility, not a prison.

Merv took a deep breath, flicked the safety cover, and pressed the red button. The remote control emitted an infrared command activating two sonix charges. The charges sent out sound waves that burst the balloons, and the balloons dumped their acidic contents on the clinic’s power cubes. Twenty seconds later the cubes were completely eaten away and the whole building was plunged into darkness. Merv and Scant quickly put on night-vision goggles.

As soon as the power failed, green strip lights began pulsing gently on the floor, guiding the way to the exits. Merv and Scant moved quickly and purposefully. Scant steered the trolley, and Merv made straight for Corporal Kelp.

Grub was pulling the video glasses from over his eyes.

"Hey," he said, disoriented by the sudden darkness. "What’s going on here?"

"Power failure," said Merv, bumping into him with calculated clumsiness. "Those lines are a nightmare. I’ve been telling Dr. Argon, but nobody wants to spend money on maintenance when there are fancy company cars to be bought."

Merv was not chatting for the fun of it; he was waiting for the soluble sedative pad he had pressed onto Grub’s wrist to take effect.

"Tell me about it," said Grub, suddenly blinking a lot more than he generally did. "I’ve been lobbying for new lockers at Police Plaza. I’m really thirsty. Is anyone else thirsty?" Grub stiffened, frozen by the serum that was spreading through his system. The LEP officer would snap out of it in under two minutes and be instantly alert. He would have no memory of his unconsciousness, and with luck, he would not notice the time lapse.

"Go," said Scant tersely.

Merv was already gone. With ease, he punched Dr. Argon’s code into Opal’s door. He completed this action faster than Argon ever could, due to hours spent practicing on a stolen pad in his apartment. Argon’s code changed every week, but the Brill brothers made certain that they were cleaning outside the room when Argon was on his rounds. The pixies generally had the complete code by midweek.

The battery-powered pad light winked green, and the door slid back. Opal Koboi swung gently before him, suspended in her harness like a bug in an exotic cocoon.

Merv winched her down onto the trolley. Moving briskly, and with practiced precision, he rolled up Opal’s sleeve and located the scar in her upper arm where the seeker-sleeper had been inserted. He gripped the hard lump between his thumb and forefinger.

"Scalpel," he said, holding out his free hand. Scant passed him the instrument. Merv took a breath, held it, and made a one-inch incision in Opal’s flesh. He wiggled his index finger into the hole and rolled out the electronic capsule. It was encased in silicone and roughly the size of a painkiller.

"Seal it up," he ordered.

Scant bent close to the wound and placed a thumb at each end.

"Heal," he whispered, and blue sparks of fairy magic ran rings around his fingers, sinking into the wound. In seconds the folds of skin had zipped themselves together, with only a pale pink scar to show that a cut had been made—a scar almost identical to the one that already existed. Opal’s own magic had dried up months ago, as she was in no position to complete a power-restoring ritual.

"Miss Koboi," said Merv briskly. "Time to get up. Wakey-wakey."

He unstrapped Opal completely from the harness. The unconscious pixie collapsed onto the lid of the cleaning trolley. Merv slapped her across the cheek, bringing a blush to her face. Opal’s breathing rate increased slightly, but her eyes remained closed.

"Jolt her," said Scant.

Merv pulled an LEP-issue buzz baton from inside his jacket. He powered it up and touched Opal on the elbow. The pixie’s body jerked spasmodically, and Opal Koboi shot into consciousness, a sleeper waking from a nightmare.

"Cudgeon," she screamed. "You betrayed me!"

Merv grabbed her shoulders. "Miss Koboi. It’s us, Mervall and Descant. It’s time."

Opal glared at him, wild eyed.

"Brill?" she said after several deep breaths.

"That’s right. Merv and Scant. We need to go."

"Go? What do you mean?"

"Leave," said Merv urgently. "We have about a minute."

Opal shook her head, dislodging the after-trance daze. "Merv and Scant. We need to go."

Merv helped her from the trolley’s lid. "That’s right. The clone is ready."

Scant peeled back a sealed foil false bottom in the trolley. Inside lay a cloned replica of Opal Koboi wearing an Argon Clinic coma suit. The clone was identical, down to the last follicle. Scant removed an oxygen mask from the clone’s face, hauled it from its resting place, and began cinching her into the harness.

"Remarkable," said Opal, brushing the clone’s skin with her knuckle. "Am I that beautiful?"

"Oh yes," said Merv. "That and more."

Suddenly, Opal screeched. "Idiots. Its eyes are open. It can see me!"

Scant closed the clone’s lids hurriedly. "Don’t worry, Miss Koboi, it can’t tell anyone, even if its brain could decipher what it sees."

Opal climbed groggily into the trolley. "But its eyes can register images. Foaly may think to check. That infernal centaur."

"Don’t fret, Miss," said Scant, folding the trolley’s false bottom over his mistress. "Very soon now, that will be the least of Foaly’s worries."

Opal strapped the oxygen mask across her face. "Later," she said, her voice muffled by the plastic. "Talk, later."

Koboi drifted into a natural sleep, exhausted by even this small exertion. It could be hours before the pixie regained consciousness. After a coma of that length, there was even the risk that Opal would never be quite as smart as she once was.

"Time?" said Merv.

Scant glanced at his moonometer. "Thirty seconds left."

Merv finished cinching the straps exactly as they had been. Pausing only to dab sweat from his brow, he made a second incision with his scalpel, this time in the clone’s arm, and inserted the seeker-sleeper. While Scant sealed the cut with a blast of magical sparks, Merv rearranged the cleaning paraphernalia over the trolley’s false section.

Scant bobbed impatiently. "Eight seconds, seven. By the gods, this is the last time I break the boss out of a clinic and replace her with a clone."

Merv spun the trolley on its castors, pushing it through the open doorway. "Five . . . four . . ."

Scant did one last check around, running his eyeballs across everything they had touched.

"Three ...two ..."

They were out, pulling the door behind them.

"One ..."

Corporal Grub slumped slightly, then jerked to attention.

"Hey . . . what the? I’m really thirsty. Is anyone else thirsty?"

Merv stuffed the night-vision goggles into the trolley, blinking a bead of sweat from his eyelid. "It’s the air in here. I get dehydrated all the time. Terrible headaches."

Grub pinched the bridge of his nose. "Me too. I’m going to write a letter, as soon as the lights come back."

Just then the lights did come back, flickering on one after another down the length of the corridor.

"There we go," grinned Scant. "Panic over. Maybe now they’ll buy us some new circuits, eh, brother?"

Dr. Argon came barrelling down the passageway, almost keeping pace with the flickering lights.

"Your hip is better, then, Jerry?" said Merv.

Argon ignored the pixies, his eyes wide, his breath ragged.

"Corporal Kelp," he panted. "Koboi, is she? Has she ..."

Grub rolled his eyes. "Calm yourself, doctor. Miss Koboi is still suspended where you left her. Take a look."

Argon flattened his palms against the wall, first checking the vitals.

"Okay, no change. No change. A two-minute lapse, but that’s okay."

"I told you," said Grub. "And while you’re here, I need to talk to you about these headaches I’ve been having."

Argon brushed him aside. "I need a cotton ball. Scant, do you have any?"

Scant slapped his pockets. "Sorry, Jerry. Not on me."

"Don’t call me Jerry!" howled Jerbal Argon, ripping the lid from the cleaning trolley. "There must be cotton balls in here somewhere," he said, sweat pasting thin hair across his wide gnome’s forehead. "It’s a janitor’s box, for heaven’s sake." His blunt fingers scrabbled through the trolley’s contents, scraping across the false bottom.

Merv elbowed him out of the way before he could discover the secret compartment or spy screens. "Here we are, doctor," he said, grabbing a tub of cotton balls. "A month’s supply. Knock yourself out."

Argon fumbled a single ball from the pack, discarding the rest.

"DNA never lies," he muttered, punching his code into the keypad. "DNA never lies."

He rushed into the room and roughly swabbed the inside of the clone’s mouth. The Brill brothers held their breath. They had expected to be out of the clinic before this happened. Argon rolled the cotton ball’s head across the sponge pad on his clipboard. A moment later, Opal Koboi’s name flashed onto the board’s miniplasma screen.

Argon heaved a massive sigh, resting his hands on both knees. He threw the observers a shamefaced grin. "Sorry. I panicked. If we lost Koboi, the clinic would never live it down. I’m just a little paranoid, I suppose. Faces can be altered, but . . ."

"DNA never lies," said Merv and Scant simultaneously.

Grub reset his video goggles. "I think Dr. Argon needs a little vacation."

"You’re telling me," sniggered Merv, rolling the trolley toward the maintenance elevator. "Anyway, we’d better get going, brother. We need to isolate the cause of the power failure."

Scant followed him down the corridor. "Any idea where the problem could be?"

"I have a hunch. Let’s try the parking lot, or maybe the basement."

"Whatever you say. After all, you are the older brother."

"And wiser," added Merv. "Don’t forget that."

The pixies continued down the corridor, their brisk banter masking the fact that their knees were shaking and their hearts were battering their rib cages. It wasn’t until they had removed the evidence of their acid bombs, and were well on their way home in the van, that they began to breathe normally again.

Back in the apartment he shared with Scant, Merv unzipped Koboi from her sealed hiding place. Any worries they’d had about Opal’s IQ taking a dip immediately vanished. Their employer’s eyes were bright and aware.

"Bring me up to speed," she said, climbing shakily from the trolley. Even though her mind was fully functioning, it would take a couple of days in an electromassager to get her muscles back to normal.

Merv helped her onto a low sofa. "Everything is in place. The funds, the surgeon, everything."

Opal drank greedily straight from a jug of core water on the coffee table. "Good, good. And what of my enemies?"

Scant stood beside his brother. They were almost identical except for a slight wideness in Merv’s brow. Merv had always been the smart one.

"We have kept tabs on them, as you asked," said Scant.

Opal stopped drinking. "Asked?"

"Instructed," stammered Scant. "Instructed, of course. That’s what I meant."

Koboi’s eyes narrowed. "I do hope the Brill brothers haven’t developed any independent notions since I’ve been asleep."

Scant stooped slightly, almost bowing. "No, no, Miss Koboi. We live to serve. Only to serve."

"Yes," agreed Opal. "And you live only as long as you do serve. Now, my enemies. They are well and happy, I trust."

"Oh yes. Julius Root goes from strength to strength as LEP Commander. He has been nominated for the Council."

Opal smiled a vicious wolverine’s smile. "The Council. Such a long way to fall. And Holly Short?"

"Back on full active duty. Six successful reconnaissance missions since you induced your coma. Her name has been put on the list for promotion to major."

"Major, indeed. Well, the least we can do is to make sure that promotion never comes through. I plan to wreck Holly Short’s career, so she dies in disgrace."

"The centaur Foaly is as obnoxious as ever," continued Scant Brill. "I suggest a particularly nasty . . ."

Opal raised a delicate finger, cutting him off. "No. Nothing happens to Foaly just yet. He will be defeated by intellect alone. Twice in my life, someone has outsmarted me. Both times it was Foaly. Just killing him requires no ingenuity. I want him beaten, humiliated, and alone." She clapped her hands in delighted anticipation. "And then I will kill him."

"We have been monitoring Artemis Fowl’s communications. Apparently the human youth has spent most of the past year trying to find a certain painting. We have traced the painting to Munich."

"A painting? Really?" Cogwheels turned in Opal’s brain. "Well, let’s make sure we get to it before he does. Maybe we can add a little something to his work of art."

Scant nodded. "Yes. That’s not a problem. I’ll go tonight."

Opal stretched out on the sofa like a cat in the sunlight. "Good. This is turning out to be a lovely day. Now, send for the surgeon."

The Brill brothers glanced at each other.

"Miss Koboi?" said Mervall nervously.

"Yes, what is it?"

"The surgeon. This kind of operation cannot be reversed, even by magic. Are you sure you wouldn’t like to think ..."

Opal leaped from the sofa. Her cheeks were crimson with rage. "Think! You’d like me to think about it! What do you imagine I have been doing for the past year? Thinking! Twenty-four hours a day. I don’t care about magic. Magic did not help me to escape, science did. Science will be my magic. Now, no more advice, Merv, or your brother will be an only child. Is that clear?"

Merv was stunned. He had never seen Opal in such a rage. The coma had changed her.

"Yes, Miss Koboi."

"Now, summon the surgeon."

"At once, Miss Koboi."

Opal lay back on the sofa. Soon everything would be right in the world. Her enemies would shortly be dead or discredited. Once those loose ends were tied up, she could get on with her new life. Koboi rubbed the tips of her pointed ears. What would she look like, she wondered, as a human?





CHAPTER 2

THE FAIRY THIEF





Munich, Germany; Present Day

Thieves have their own folklore: stories of ingenious heists and death-defying robberies. One such legend tells of the Egyptian cat burglar Faisil Mahmood, who scaled the dome of St. Peter’s basilica in order to drop in on a visiting bishop and steal his crosier.

Another story concerns confidence woman Red Mary Keneally, who dressed as a duchess and talked her way into the King of England’s coronation. The palace denied the event ever took place, but every now and then a crown turns up at auction that looks a lot like the one in the Tower of London.

Perhaps the most thrilling legend is the tale of the lost Hervé masterpiece. Every primary schoolchild knows that Pascal Hervé was the French Impressionist who painted extraordinarily beautiful pictures of the fairy folk. And every art dealer knows that Hervé’s paintings are second in value only to those of van Gogh himself, commanding price tags of more than fifty million euros.

There are fifteen paintings in the Hervé Fairy Folk series. Ten reside in French museums and five are in private collections. But there are rumors of a sixteenth. Whispers circulate in the upper criminal echelons that another Hervé exists: The Fairy Thief, depicting a fairy in the act of stealing a human child. Legend has it that Hervé gave the picture as a gift to a beautiful Turkish girl he met on the Champs-Elysée.

The girl promptly broke Hervé’s heart, and sold the picture to a British tourist for twenty francs. Within weeks, the picture had been stolen from the Englishman’s home. And since that time, it has been lifted from private collections all over the world. Since Hervé painted his masterpiece, it is believed that The Fairy Thief has been stolen fifteen times. But what makes these thefts different from the billion others that have been committed during this time is that the first thief decided to keep the picture for himself. And so did all the others.

The Fairy Thief has become something of a trophy for top thieves worldwide. Only a dozen know of its existence, and only a handful know of its whereabouts. The painting is to criminals what the Turner Prize is to artists. Whoever manages to successfully steal the lost painting is acknowledged as the master thief of his generation. Not many are aware of this challenge, but those who do know matter.

Naturally Artemis Fowl knew of The Fairy Thief, and recently he had learned of the painting’s whereabouts. It was an irresistible test of his abilities. If he succeeded in stealing the lost master, he would become the youngest thief in history to have done so.

His bodyguard, the giant Eurasian Butler, was not very pleased with his young charge’s latest project.

"I don’t like this, Artemis," said Butler in his bass gravelly tones. "My instincts tell me it’s a trap."

Artemis Fowl inserted batteries in his handheld computer game.

"Of course it’s a trap," said the fourteen-year-old Irish boy. "The Fairy Thief has been ensnaring thieves for years. That’s what makes it interesting."

They were traveling around Munich’s Marienplatz in a rented Hummer H2. The military vehicle was not Artemis’s style, but it would be consistent with the style of the people they were pretending to be. Artemis sat in the rear, feeling ridiculous, dressed not in his usual dark two-piece suit, but in normal teenager clothing.

"This outfit is preposterous," he said, zipping his tracksuit top. "What is the point of a hood that is not waterproof? And all these logos? I feel like a walking advertisement. And these jeans do not fit properly. They are sagging down to my knees."

Butler smiled, glancing in the rearview mirror. "I think you look fine. Juliet would say that you were bad."

Juliet, Butler’s younger sister, was currently on a tour of the States with a Mexican wrestling troupe, trying to break into the big time. Her ring name was the Jade Princess.

"I certainly feel bad," admitted Artemis. "As for these high-top sneakers—how is one supposed to run quickly with soles three inches thick? I feel as though I am on stilts. Honestly, Butler, the second we return to the hotel, I am disposing of this outfit. I miss my suits."

Butler pulled onto Im Tal, where the International Bank was located. "Artemis, if you’re not feeling comfortable, perhaps we should postpone this operation?"

Artemis zipped his computer game into a backpack, which already contained a number of typical teenage items. "Absolutely not. This window of opportunity has taken a month to organize."

Three weeks previously, Artemis had made an anonymous donation to the St. Bartleby’s School for Young Men, on condition that the third-year boys be taken on a trip to Munich for the European Schools’ Fair. The principal had been happy to honor the donor’s wishes. And now, while the other boys were viewing various technological marvels at an exhibition in Munich’s Olympia Stadium, Artemis was on his way to the International Bank.

As far as Principal Guiney was concerned, Butler was driving a student who was feeling poorly back to his hotel room.

"Crane and Sparrow probably move the painting several times a year. I certainly would. Who knows where it will be in six months?"

Crane and Sparrow were a firm of British lawyers who used their business as a front for an extremely successful burglary and fencing enterprise. Artemis had long suspected them of possessing The Fairy Thief. Confirmation had arrived a month earlier, when a private detective who was routinely employed to spy on Crane and Sparrow reported that he had spotted them moving a painting tube to the International Bank. Possibly The Fairy Thief.

"I may not have this chance again until I am an adult," continued the Irish youth. "And there is no question of waiting that long. Franz Herman stole The Fairy Thief when he was eighteen years old; I need to beat that record."

Butler sighed. "Criminal folklore tells us that Herman stole the painting in 1927. He merely snatched a briefcase. There is rather more to contend with today. We must break open a safe-deposit box in one of the world’s most secure banks, in broad daylight."

Artemis Fowl smiled. "Yes. Many would say that it was impossible."

"They would," agreed Butler, slotting the Hummer into a parking space. "Many sane people. Especially for someone on a school tour."

* * *


They entered the bank through the lobby’s revolving doors in full view of the CCTV. Butler led the way, striding purposefully across the gold-veined marble floor toward an inquiries desk. Artemis trailed behind, bobbing his head to some music on his portable disk player. In fact the disk player was empty. Artemis wore mirrored sunglasses that concealed his eyes but allowed him to scan the bank’s interior unobserved.

The International Bank was famous in certain circles for having the most secure safe-deposit boxes in the world, including Switzerland. It was rumored that if the International Bank’s deposit boxes were cracked open and the contents dumped onto the floor, perhaps one tenth of the world’s wealth would be heaped on the marble. Jewels, bearer bonds, cash, deeds, art. At least half of it stolen from its rightful owners. But Artemis was not interested in any of these objects. Perhaps next time.

Butler stopped at the enquiries desk, casting a broad shadow across the slim-line monitor perched there. The thin man who had been working on the monitor lifted his head to complain, then thought better of it. Butler’s sheer bulk often had that effect on people.

"How can I help you, Herr . . . ?"

"Lee, Colonel Xavier Lee. I wish to open my deposit box," replied Butler, in fluent German.

"Yes, Colonel. Of course. My name is Bertholt, and I will be assisting you today." Bertholt opened Colonel Xavier Lee’s file on his computer with one hand, the other twirling a pencil like a mini-baton. "We just need to complete the usual security check. If I may have your passport?"

"Of course," said Butler, sliding a People’s Republic of China passport across the desk. "I expect nothing less than the most stringent security procedures."

Bertholt took the passport in his slim fingers, first checking the photograph, then placing it onto a scanner.

"Alfonse," snapped Butler at Artemis. "Stop fidgeting and stand up straight, son. You slouch so much that sometimes I think you don’t have a spine."

Bertholt smiled with the insincerity a toddler could have seen through. "Alfonse, nice to meet you."

"Dude," said Artemis, with equal hypocrisy.

Butler shook his head. "My son does not communicate well with the rest of the world. I look forward to the day he can join the army. Then we shall see if there is a man beneath all these moods."

Bertholt nodded sympathetically. "I have a girl. Sixteen years old. She spends more of my money on phone calls in a week than the entire family spends on food."

"Teenagers, they’re all the same."

The computer beeped.

"Ah yes, your passport has been cleared. Now all I need is a signature." Bertholt slid a handwriting tablet across the desk. A digi-pen was attached to the tablet by a length of wire. Butler took it and scrawled his signature across the line. The signature would match. Of course it would. The original writing was Butler’s own, Colonel Xavier Lee being one of a dozen aliases the bodyguard had created over the years. The passport was also authentic, even if the details typed upon it weren’t. Butler had purchased it years previously from a Chinese diplomat’s secretary in Rio de Janeiro.

Once again the computer beeped.

"Good," said Bertholt. "You are indeed who you say you are. I shall bring you to the deposit-box room. Will Alfonse be accompanying us?"

Butler stood. "Absolutely. If I leave him here, he will probably get himself arrested."

Bertholt attempted a joke. "Well, if I may say so, Colonel, he’s in the right place."

"Hilarious, dude," muttered Artemis. "You should, like, have your own show."

But Bertholt’s comment was accurate. Armed security men were dotted throughout the building. At the first sign of any impropriety, they would move to strategic points, covering all exits.

Bertholt led the way to a brushed-steel elevator, holding his ID card up to a camera over the door.

The bank official winked at Artemis. "We have a special security system here, young man. It’s all very exciting."

"I know. I think I’m going to faint," said Artemis.

"No more attitude, son," scolded Butler. "Bertholt is simply trying to make conversation."

Bertholt stayed civil in the face of Artemis’s sarcasm. "Maybe you’d like to work here when you grow up, eh, Alfonse?"

For the first time Artemis smiled sincerely, and for some reason the sight sent shivers down Bertholt’s spine. "Do you know something, Bertholt? I think some of my best work will be in banks."

The awkward silence that followed was cut short by a voice from a tiny speaker below the camera.

"Yes, Bertholt, we see you. How many?"

"Two," replied Bertholt. "One key holder and one minor. Coming down to open a box."

The lift door slid back to reveal a steel cuboid with no buttons or panels, just a camera elevated in one corner. They stepped inside and the elevator was remotely activated. Artemis noticed Bertholt wringing his hands as soon as they began to descend.

"Hey, Bertholt, what’s the problem? It’s only an elevator."

Bertholt forced a smile. Barely a glint of tooth showed beneath his mustache. "You don’t miss much, do you, Alfonse? I don’t like small spaces. And there are no controls in here, for security reasons. The lift is operated from the desk. If it were to break down, we would be relying on the guards to rescue us. This thing is virtually airtight. What if the guard had a heart attack, or went on a coffee break? We could all . . ." The bank official’s nervous rant was cut off by the hiss of the elevator door. They had arrived at the deposit-box floor.

"Here we are," said Bertholt, mopping his forehead with a Kleenex. A section of the paper remained trapped in the worry lines of his forehead, and fluttered there like a windsock in the air-conditioner blast. "Safe, you see. Absolutely no need to worry. All is well." He laughed nervously. "Shall we?"

A bulky security guard waited for them outside the lift. Artemis noted the side arm on his belt, and the earpiece cord winding along his neck.

"Willkommen, Bertholt, you made it in one piece. Again."

Bertholt plucked the strand of tissue from his forehead. "Yes, Kurt, I made it, and don’t think the scorn in your voice goes unnoticed."

Kurt sighed mightily, allowing the escaping air to flap his lips. "Please pardon my phobic countryman," he said to Butler. "Everything terrifies him, from spiders to elevators. It’s a wonder he ever gets out of bed. Now, if you could stand on the yellow square and raise both arms to shoulder level."

There was a yellow square taped onto the steel floor. Butler stepped onto it, raising his arms. Kurt performed a body search that would have shamed a customs official, before ushering him through a metal detector arch.

"He’s clean," he said aloud. The words would be picked up by the microphone on his lapel and relayed to the security booth. "You next, boy," said Kurt. "Same drill."

Artemis complied, slouching onto the square. He raised his arms barely six inches from his sides.

Butler glared at him. "Alfonse! Can’t you do what the man says? In the army I would have you cleaning the latrines for this kind of behavior."

Artemis glared back. "Yes, Colonel, but we’re not in the army here, are we?"

Kurt slipped Artemis’s pack from his back and rifled through the contents.

"What’s this?" he asked, pulling out a toughened plastic frame.

Artemis took the frame, unfolding it with three deft movements. "It’s a scooter, dude. You may have heard of them. Transportation that doesn’t pollute the air we breathe."

Kurt snatched back the scooter, spinning the wheels and checking the joints.

Artemis smirked. "Of course, it’s also a laser cutter, so I can break into your boxes."

"You’re a real smart aleck, boy," snarled Kurt, stuffing the scooter back in the bag. "And what’s this?"

Artemis turned on the video game. "It’s a game box. They were invented so teenagers wouldn’t have to talk to grown-ups."

Kurt glanced at Butler. "He’s a gem, sir. I wish I had one just like him." He rattled a ring of keys on Artemis’s belt. "And what are these?"

Artemis scratched his head. "Uh . . . keys?"

Kurt ground his teeth audibly. "I know they’re keys, boy. What do they open?"

Artemis shrugged. "Stuff. My locker. My scooter lock. A couple of diaries. Stuff."

The security guard examined the keys. They were everyday keys, and wouldn’t open a complicated lock. But the bank had a no-key rule. Only safe-deposit box keys were allowed through the metal detector.

"Sorry. The keys stay here." Kurt unclipped the ring and placed the keys in a flat tray. "You can pick them up on your way out."

"Can I go now?"

"Yes," said Kurt. "Please do, but pass the bag through to your father first."

Artemis handed the bag around the metal detector arch to Butler. He passed through himself, setting off the buzzer.

Kurt followed him impatiently. "Do you have anything else metallic on you? A belt buckle? Some coins?"

"Money?" scoffed Artemis. "I wish."

"What’s setting off the detector, then?" said Kurt, puzzled.

"I think I know," said Artemis. He hooked a finger inside his top lip, pulling it up. Two metal bands ran across his teeth.

"Braces. That would do it," said Kurt. "The detector is extremely sensitive."

Artemis removed his finger from his mouth. "Should I take these out too? Rip them from my teeth?"

Kurt took the suggestion at face value. "No. I think we’re safe enough. Just go on through. But behave yourself in there. It’s a vault, not a playground." Kurt paused, pointing to a camera above their heads. "Remember, I’ll be watching."

"Watch all you like," said Artemis brazenly.

"Oh, I will, boy. You so much as spit on one of those doors, and I’ll eject you from the premises. Forcibly."

"Oh, for heaven’s sake, Kurt," said Bertholt. "Don’t be so theatrical. Those are not network television cameras, you know."

Bertholt ushered them through to the vault door. "I apologize for Kurt. He failed the special-forces exam and ended up here. Sometimes I think he would love someone to rob the place, just so he could see some action."

The door was a circular slab of steel, at least sixteen feet in diameter. In spite of its size, the door swung easily at Bertholt’s touch.

"Perfectly balanced," explained the bank official. "A child could open it, until five thirty when it shuts for the night. Naturally the vault is time locked. Nobody can open the door until eight thirty A.M. Not even the bank president."

Inside the vault were rows and rows of steel deposit boxes of all shapes and sizes. Each box had a single rectangular keyhole on its face, surrounded by a fiber-optic light. At the moment all the lights glowed red.

Bertholt took a key from his pocket; it was attached to his belt by a woven steel cable. "Of course the key’s shape is not the only important thing," he said, inserting the key into a master keyhole. "The locks are also operated by microchip."

Butler took a similar key from his wallet. "Are we ready?"

"Whenever you are, sir."

Butler ran his fingers over several boxes until he reached number seven hundred. He inserted his key in the keyhole. "Ready."

"Very well, sir. On my mark. Three, two, one. Turn."

Both men turned their keys simultaneously. The master key safeguard prevented a thief opening a box with a single key. If the two keys were not turned within one second of each other, the box would not open.

The light around both keys switched from red to green. The door on Butler’s safe-deposit box popped open.

"Thank you, Bertholt," said Butler, reaching into the box.

"Of course, sir," replied Bertholt, almost bowing. "I’ll be right outside. Even with the camera, there is a threeminute inspection rule. So I’ll see you in one hundred and eighty seconds."

Once the bank official had gone, Artemis shot his bodyguard a quizzical look.

"Alfonse?" he said out of the side of his mouth. "I don’t remember deciding on a name for my character."

Butler set the stopwatch on his chronograph. "I was improvising, Artemis. I thought the situation required it. And if I may say so, you make a very convincing obnoxious teenager."

"Thank you, old friend. I try."

Butler removed an architect’s drawing from his deposit box, unfolding the document until it was almost six feet square. He held it at arm’s length, apparently studying the design inked onto the paper.

Artemis glanced upward at the ceiling-mounted camera. "Raise your arms another two inches and take a step to your left."

Butler did so casually, covering the movements with a cough, and a shake of the parchment.

"Good. Perfect. Stay right there."

When Butler had rented the box on his last visit, he’d taken numerous photographs of the vault with a button camera. Artemis had used these photos to render a digital reconstruction of the room. According to his calculations, Butler’s present position provided Artemis with a thirty-three-foot box of cover. In that area his movements would be hidden by the drawing. At the moment, only his trainers could be seen by the security guards.

Artemis rested his back against a wall of security boxes, between two steel benches. He braced both arms against the benches, levering himself out of the oversized trainers. Carefully, the boy slid onto the bench.

"Keep your head down," advised Butler.

Artemis rooted through his backpack for the video cube. Though the box did actually play a computer game, its primary function was an X-ray panel with real-time viewing. The X-ray panels were in common usage among the upper criminal echelons, and it had been a relatively simple matter for Artemis to disguise one as a teenager’s toy.

Artemis activated the X-ray, sliding it across the door of the deposit box beside Butler’s. The bodyguard had rented his box two days after Crane and Sparrow. It stood to reason that the boxes would be close to one another, unless Crane and Sparrow had requested a specific number. In that case it was back to the drawing board. Artemis reckoned that this first attempt to steal The Fairy Thief had a forty percent chance of success. These were not ideal odds, but he had no option but to go ahead. At the very least, he would learn more about the bank’s security.

The game cube’s small screen revealed that the first box was stuffed with currency.

"Negative," said Artemis. "Cash only."

Butler raised an eyebrow. "You know what they say; you can never have too much cash."

Artemis had already moved on to the next box. "Not today, old friend. But let’s keep up the rental on our box, in case we ever need to return."

The next box contained legal papers tied together with ribbons. The one after that was piled high with loose diamonds in a tray. Artemis struck gold on the fourth box. Figuratively speaking. Inside the deposit box was a long tube containing a rolled-up canvas.

"I think we have it, Butler. I think this could be it."

"Time enough to get excited when the painting is hanging on the wall in Fowl Manor. Hurry up, Artemis, my arms are beginning to ache."

Artemis steadied himself. Of course Butler was right. They were still a long way from possessing The Fairy Thief, if indeed this painting was Hervé’s lost masterpiece. It could just as easily be some proud grandfather’s crayon drawing of a helicopter.

Artemis moved the X-ray machine down to the bottom of the box. There were no manufacturer’s markings on the door, but often craftsmen were proud and could not resist placing a signature somewhere. Even if nobody knew it was there but them. Artemis searched for maybe twenty seconds before he found what he was looking for. Inside the door itself, on the rear panel was engraved the word Blokken.

"Blokken," said the boy triumphantly. "We were right."

There were only six firms in the world capable of constructing deposit boxes of this quality. Artemis had hacked their computers and found International Bank on the Blokken client list. Blokken was a small family company in Vienna that also made boxes for several banks in Geneva and the Cayman Islands. Butler had paid their workshop a little visit and stolen two master keys. Of course, the keys were metal, and would not escape the detector arch, unless for some reason metal had been allowed through.

Artemis reached two fingers into his mouth, dislodging the brace from his upper teeth. Behind the brace itself was a plastic retainer, and clipped to that were two keys. The master keys.

Artemis rotated his jaw for a few seconds. "That feels better," he said. "I thought I was going to gag."

The next problem was one of distance. There were eight feet between the deposit box and the master keyhole by the door. Not only was it impossible for one person to open the door unassisted, but whoever stood by the master keyhole would be visible to the security guards.

Artemis pulled his scooter from the backpack. He yanked one pin from its socket, detaching the steering column from the footrest. This was no ordinary scooter. An engineer friend of Butler’s had constructed it from very specific blueprints. The footrest was completely regular, but the steering column turned into a telescope at the touch of a spring-release button. Artemis unscrewed one handgrip, reattaching it at the other end of the column. There was a slit in the end of each grip, into which Artemis screwed a master key. Now all he had to do was insert both keys into their corresponding keyholes and turn them simultaneously.

Artemis slotted one key into Crane and Sparrow’s box.

"Ready?" he asked Butler.

"Yes," replied his bodyguard. "Don’t go one step farther than you have to."

"Three, two, one. Go."

Artemis pressed the spring-release button on the steering column. He shuffled across the bench, pulling the telescoping pole behind him. As the boy moved, Butler swiveled his trunk so that Artemis remained shielded by the blueprint. He moved the plan just far enough to cover the master keyhole, without exposing Artemis’s legless shoes. However, the target box, complete with telescoping pole, was visible for the time it took Artemis to insert the second key.

The master keyhole was three feet beyond the end of the steel bench. Artemis leaned as far as he could without losing his balance, slotting the key into its hole. It fit snugly. Artemis shuffled back quickly. Now Butler could once again mask Crane and Sparrow’s box. The entire plan hinged on the assumption that the guards would be concentrating on Butler, and not notice a slim pole extending toward the master keyhole. It would help that the pole was precisely the same color as the safe-deposit boxes.

Artemis returned to the original box, twisting the handgrip. A pulley and cable system inside the pole twisted the other handgrip simultaneously. Both locks flashed green. Crane and Sparrow’s box popped open. Artemis felt a moment of satisfaction. His contraption had worked. Then again, there was no reason it shouldn’t: all the laws of physics had been obeyed. Amazing how the tightest of electronic security could be defeated by a pole, a pulley, and a brace.

"Artemis," groaned Butler. "Keeping my arms up is becoming uncomfortable. So, if you wouldn’t mind."

Artemis cut short his mental celebration. They were not out of the vault yet. He turned the grips back to their original position, then yanked the bar toward him. Both keys popped from their holes. With the touch of a button, the pole snapped back to its original length. Artemis did not reassemble the scooter just yet. The pole may be needed to search other boxes.

Artemis studied the locker with the X-ray panel before opening the door any wider. He was searching for any wires or circuits that might trigger secondary alarms. There was one. A circuit breaker attached to a portable Klaxon. It would be extremely embarrassing for any thief if the authorities were alerted by the raucous wailing of a foghorn. Artemis smiled. It seemed as though Crane and Sparrow had a sense of humor. Maybe he would employ them as his lawyers.

Artemis unhooked the headphones from around his neck, popping off the earpieces. Once the wire inside was exposed, he twisted a length around each side of the breaker. Now he could safely pull apart the breaker without opening the circuit. Artemis pulled. The Klaxon remained silent.

At last, the box lay open before him. Inside, a single tube stood propped against the rear wall. The tube was fashioned from Perspex, and contained a rolled-up canvas. Artemis removed the tube and held it up to the light. For several seconds, he studied the painting through the transparent plastic. He could not risk opening the tube until they were safely back in the hotel. A hasty job now could cause accidental damage to the painting. He had waited years to obtain The Fairy Thief; he could wait a few more hours.

"The brushwork is unmistakable," he said, closing the box. "Strong strokes. Thick blocks of light. It’s either Hervé, or a brilliant copy. I do believe we’ve done it, Butler, but I can’t be sure without X-ray and paint analysis."

"Good," said the bodyguard, glancing at his watch. "That can be done at the hotel. Pack up and let’s get out of here."

Artemis shoved the cylinder into his backpack, along with the reassembled scooter. He clipped the keys to his retainer, slotting the brace over his teeth.

The vault door slid back just as the Irish youth lowered himself into his trainers. Bertholt’s head appeared in the gap.

"Everything all right in here?" asked the bank official.

Butler folded the drawing, slotting it into his pocket.

"Fine, Bertholt. Excellent, in fact. You may escort us to the main level."

Bertholt bowed slightly. "Of course. Follow me."

Artemis was back in the role of argumentative teenager. "Thanks so much, Berty. This has been a real blast. I just love spending my holidays in banks, looking at papers."

All credit to Bertholt. His smile never wavered.

Kurt was waiting for them by the X-ray arch, arms folded across a chest the size of a rhino’s. He waited until Butler had gone past, then tapped Artemis’s shoulder.

"You think you’re really smart, don’t you, boy?" he said, grinning.

Artemis grinned back. "Compared to you? Definitely."

Kurt bent over, hands on knees, until his eyes were level with Artemis’s. "I was watching you from the security booth. You didn’t do a thing. Your kind never does."

"How do you know?" asked Artemis. "I could have been breaking into those safe-deposit boxes."

"I know all right. I know because I could see your feet the whole time. You barely moved an inch."

Artemis grabbed his ring of keys from the tray and ran after Butler to make the lift. "You win this time. But I’ll be back."

Kurt cupped a hand around his mouth. "Bring it on," he shouted. "I’ll be waiting."





CHAPTER 3

NEARLY DEPARTED





Police Plaza, Haven City; The Lower Elements

Captain Holly Short was up for a promotion. It was the career turnaround of the century. Less than a year had passed since she had been the subject of two internal affairs inquiries, but now, after six successful missions, Holly was the Lower Elements Police Reconnaissance squad’s golden fairy. The Council would soon meet to decide whether or not she would be the first female major in LEPrecon’s history. And to tell the truth, the prospect did not appeal to her one bit. Majors rarely got to strap on a set of wings and fly between land and stars. Instead, they spent their time sending junior officers topside on missions. Holly had made up her mind to turn down the promotion if it were offered to her. She could live with a smaller paycheck if it meant she could still see the surface on a regular basis.

Holly decided it would be wise to tell Commander Julius Root what she planned to do. After all, it was Root who had stood by her through the inquiries, and it was Root who had recommended her for promotion in the first place. The commander would not take the news well. He never took any kind of news well: even good news was received with a gruff thank-you and a slammed door.

Holly stood outside Root’s office on that morning, working up the courage to knock. And even though, at three feet exactly, she was just below the average fairy height, Holly was glad of the half inch granted by her spiky auburn hair. Before she could knock, the door was yanked open, and Root’s rosy-cheeked face appeared in the doorway.

"Captain Short!" he roared, his gray buzz cut quivering. "Get in here!" Then he noticed Holly standing beside the door. "Oh, there you are. Come in. We have a puzzle that needs solving. It involves one of our goblin friends."

Holly followed Root into the office. Foaly, the LEP’s technical adviser, was already there, close enough to the wall plasma screen to singe his nose hairs.

"Howler’s Peak video," explained Root. "General Scalene escaped."

"Escaped?" echoed Holly. "Do we know how?"

Foaly snapped his fingers. "D’Arvit! That’s what we should be thinking about, instead of standing around here playing I Spy."

"We don’t have time for the usual sarcastic small talk, Foaly," snapped Root, his complexion deepening to burgundy. "This is a PR disaster. Scalene is public enemy number two, second only to Opal Koboi herself. If the journos get wind of this, we’ll be the laughingstock of Haven. Not to mention the fact that Scalene could round up a few of his goblin buddies and reactivate the triad."

Holly crossed to the screen, elbowing Foaly’s hindquarters out of the way. Her little talk with Commander Root could wait. There was police work to be done. "What are we looking at?"

Foaly highlighted a section of the screen with a laser pointer. "Howler’s Peak, goblin correctional facility. Camera eighty-six."

"Which shows?"

"The visiting room. Scalene went in, but he never came out."

Holly scanned the camera list. "No camera in the room itself?"

Root coughed, or it may have been an actual growl. "No. According to the third Atlantis convention on fairy rights, detainees are entitled to privacy in the visiting room."

"So we don’t know what went on in there?"

"Not as such, no."

"What genius designed this system, anyway?"

In spite of the seriousness of the situation, Root chuckled. He never could resist needling the smug centaur.

"Our horsey friend here designed the Howler’s Peak automated security system all on his own."

Foaly pouted, and when a centaur pouts, his bottom lip almost reaches his chin. "It’s not the system. The system is foolproof. Every prisoner has the standard subcutaneous seeker-sleeper in his head. Even if a goblin manages to miraculously escape, we can remotely knock them out, then pick him up."

Holly raised her palms. "So what’s the problem?"

"The problem is that the seeker-sleeper is not broadcasting. Or, if it is, we’re not picking up the signal."

"That is a problem."

Root lit a noxious fungal cigar. The smoke was instantly whipped away by an air recycler on his desk. "Major Kelp is out with a mobile unit, trying to get a fix on a signal."

Trouble Kelp had recently been promoted to Root’s second in command. He was not the kind of officer who liked sitting behind a desk, unlike his little brother, Corporal Grub Kelp, who would like nothing better than to be stuck behind a nice safe desk for the remainder of his career. If Holly was forced into promotion, she hoped she could be half the major that Trouble was.

Holly returned her attention to the plasma screen. "So, who was visiting General Scalene?"

"One of his thousand nephews. A goblin by the name of Boohn. Apparently that means of noble brow in Goblin cant."

"I remember him," said Holly. "Boohn. Customs and excise think he’s one of the goblins behind the B’wa Kell smuggling operation. There’s nothing noble about him."

Foaly opened a folder on the plasma screen with his laser pointer. "Here’s the visitor list. Boohn checks in at seven fifty, Lower Elements mean time. At least I can show you that on video."

A grainy screen showed a bulky goblin in the prison’s access corridor, nervously licking his eyeballs while the security laser scanned him. Once it was confirmed that Boohn wasn’t trying to smuggle anything in, the visitors’ door popped open.

Foaly scrolled down the list. "And look here. He checks out at eight fifteen."

Boohn left swiftly, obviously uncomfortable in the facility. The parking lot camera showed him reverting to all fours for a dash to his car.

Holly scanned the list carefully. "So you’re saying that Boohn checked out at eight fifteen?"

"I just said that didn’t I, Holly?" replied Foaly testily. "I’ll say it again slowly. Eight fifteen."

Holly snatched the laser pointer. "Well, if that’s true, how did he manage to check out again at eight twenty?"

It was true. Eight lines down on the list, Boohn’s name popped up again.

"I saw that already. It’s a glitch," muttered Foaly. "That’s all. He couldn’t leave twice. It’s not possible. We get that sometimes, a bug, nothing more."

"Unless it wasn’t him the second time."

The centaur folded his arms defensively. "Don’t you think I thought of that? Every one who enters or leaves Howler’s Peak is scanned a dozen times. We take at least eighty facial points of reference with each scan. If the computer says Boohn, then that’s who it was. There’s no way a goblin beat my system. They barely have enough brainpower to walk and talk at the same time."

Holly used the pointer to review the entry video of Boohn. She enlarged his head, using a photo-manipulation program to sharpen the image.

"What are you looking for?" asked Root.

"I don’t know, Commander. Something. Anything."

It took a few minutes, but finally Holly got it. She knew immediately that she was right. Her intuition was buzzing like a swarm of bees at the base of her neck. "Look here," she said, enlarging Boohn’s brow. "A scale blister. This goblin is shedding."

"So?" said Foaly grumpily.

Holly reopened Boohn’s exit file. "Now look. No blister."

"So he burst the blister. Big deal."

"No. It’s more than that. Going in, Boohn’s skin was almost gray. Now he’s bright green. He even has a camouflage pattern on his back."

Foaly snorted. "A lot of good camouflage is in the city."

"What’s your point, Captain?" asked Root, stubbing out his cigar.

"Boohn shed his skin in the visitors’ room. So where’s the skin?"

There was silence for a long moment as the others absorbed the implications of this question.

"Would it work?" asked Root urgently.

Foaly was almost dumbstruck. "By the gods, I think it would."

The centaur pulled out a keyboard, his thick fingers flying across the Gnommish letters. A new video box appeared on the screen. In this box, another goblin was leaving the room. It looked a lot like Boohn. A lot, but not exactly. Something wasn’t quite right. Foaly zoomed in on the goblin’s head. At high magnification it was clear that the goblin’s skin was ill-fitting. Patches were missing altogether, and the goblin seemed to be holding folds together across his waist.

"He did it. I can’t believe it."

"This was all planned," said Holly. "This was no opportunistic act. Boohn waits until he’s shedding. Then he visits his uncle and they peel off his skin. General Scalene puts on the skin and just walks out the front door, fooling all your scanners on the way. When Boohn’s name shows up again, you think it’s a glitch. Simple, but completely ingenious."

Foaly collapsed into a specially designed office chair. "This is incredible. Can goblins do that?"

"Are you kidding?" said Root. "A good goblin seamstress can peel a skin without a single tear. That’s what they make their clothes from, when they bother wearing any."

"I know that. I meant, could goblins think of this all on their own. I don’t think so. We need to catch Scalene and find out who planned this."

Foaly dialed a connection to the Koboi-cam in the Argon clinic. "I’m going to check that Opal Koboi is still under. This sort of thing is just her style." A minute later, he swiveled to face Root. "Nope. Still in dreamland. I don’t know if that’s good or bad. I’d hate to have Opal back in circulation, but at least we’d know what we were up against."

A thought struck Holly, draining the blood from her face. "You don’t think it could be him, do you? It couldn’t be Artemis Fowl?"

"Definitely not," said Foaly. "It’s not the Mud Boy. Impossible."

Root wasn’t convinced. "I wouldn’t be throwing that word around so much, if I were you. Holly, as soon as we catch Scalene, I want you to sign out a surveillance pack and spend a couple of days on the Mud Boy’s trail. See what he’s up to. Just in case."

"Yes, sir."

"And you, Foaly. I’m authorizing a surveillance upgrade. Whatever you need. I want to hear every call Artemis makes, and read every letter he sends."

"But, Julius. I supervised his mind wipe myself. It was a sweet job. I scooped out his fairy memories cleaner than a goblin sucking a snail out of its shell. If we were to turn up at Artemis’s front door dancing the cancan, he still wouldn’t remember us. It would take some kind of planted trigger to initiate even partial recall."

Root did not appreciate being argued with. "One, don’t call me Julius. Two, do what I say, horsey boy, or I’ll have your budget slashed. And three, what in Frond’s name is the cancan?"

Foaly rolled his eyes. "Forget it. I’ll organize the upgrades."

"Wise move," said Root, plucking a vibrating phone from his belt. He listened for several seconds, grunting affirmatives into the speaker.

"Forget Fowl for the moment," he said, closing the phone. "Trouble has located General Scalene. He’s in E37. Holly, you’re with me. Foaly, you follow us in the tech shuttle. Apparently the general wants to talk."

Haven City was waking up for morning trade. Although to call it morning was a bit misleading, as there was only artificial light this far underground. By human standards, Haven was barely more than a village, having fewer than ten thousand inhabitants. But in fairy terms, Haven was the largest metropolis since the original Atlantis, most of which lay buried beneath a three-story shuttle dock in the new Atlantis.

Commander Root’s LEP cruiser cut through the rush-hour traffic, its magnetic field automatically shunting other vehicles out of the way into slots in the slow lane. Root and Holly sat in the back, wishing the journey away. This situation was becoming stranger by the minute. First of all, Scalene escapes, and now his locater shows up and he wants to talk to Commander Root.

"What do you make of this?" asked Root eventually. One of the reasons he made such a fine commander was that he respected his officers’ opinions.

"I don’t know. It could be a trap. Whatever happens, you can’t go in there alone."

Root nodded. "I know. Even I am not that stubborn. Anyway, Trouble will probably have the situation secured by the time I get there. He doesn’t like waiting around for the brass to arrive. Like someone else I know, eh, Holly?"

Holly half grinned, half grimaced. She had been reprimanded more than once for ignoring the order to wait for reinforcements.

Root raised the soundproof barrier between them and the driver.

"We need to talk, Holly. About the major thing."

Holly looked her superior in the eyes. There was a touch of sadness in them.

"I didn’t get it," she blurted, unable to hide her relief.

"No. No, you did get it. Or you will. The official announcement is tomorrow. The first female major in Recon history. Quite an achievement."

"But, Commander, I don’t think that . . ."

Root silenced her with a wave of his finger. "I want to tell you something, Holly. About my career. It’s actually a metaphor for your career, so listen carefully and see if you can figure it out. Many years ago, when you were still wearing one-piece baby suits with padded backsides, I was a hotshot Recon jock. I loved the smell of fresh air. Every moment I spent in the moonlight was a golden moment."

Holly had no trouble putting herself in the commander’s shoes. She felt exactly the same way about her own surface trips.

"So I did my job as well as I could—a little bit too well, as it happened. One day I went and got myself promoted."

Root clamped a purifier globe around the end of a cigar so the smell would not stink up the car. It was a rare gesture.

"Major Julius Root. It was the last thing I wanted, so I marched in to my commander’s office and told him so. ‘I’m a field fairy,’ I said. ‘I don’t want to sit behind a desk filling out e-forms.’ Believe it or not, I got quite agitated."

Holly tried to look amazed, but couldn’t pull it off. The commander spent most of his time in an agitated red-faced state, which explained his nickname, Beetroot.

"But my commander said something that changed my mind. Do you want to know what that was?"

Root plowed on with his story without waiting for an answer. "My commander said; ‘Julius, this promotion is not for you;it’s for the People.’" Root raised one eyebrow. "Do you see what I’m getting at?"

Holly knew what he meant. It was the flaw in her argument.

Root placed a hand on her shoulder. "The People need good officers, Holly. They need fairies like you to protect them from the Mud Men. Would I prefer to be zipping around under the stars with the wind in my nostrils? Yes. Would I do as much good? No."

Root paused to suck deeply on his cigar, the glow illuminated the purifier globe. "You’re a good Recon officer, Holly. One of the best I’ve seen. A bit impulsive at times, not much respect for authority, but an intuitive officer, nonetheless. I wouldn’t dream of taking you off the front lines if I didn’t think you could serve the LEP better belowground. Do you understand?"

"Yes, Commander," said Holly glumly. He was right, even if her selfish side wasn’t ready to accept it just yet. At least she had the Fowl surveillance to look forward to before her new job anchored her in the lower elements.

"There is a perk to being a major," said Root.

"Sometimes, just to relieve the boredom, you can give yourself an assignment. Something on the surface. In Hawaii, maybe, or New Zealand. Look at Trouble Kelp. He’s a new breed of major, more hands-on. Maybe that’s what the LEP needs."

Holly knew that the commander was trying to soften the blow. As soon as the major’s acorns were on her lapel, she wouldn’t get aboveground as much as she did now. If she was lucky.

"I’m putting my neck on the block here, Holly, recommending you for major. Your career so far has been, eventful, to say the least. If you intend to turn the promotion down, tell me now and I’ll withdraw your name."

Last chance, thought Holly. Now or never.

"No," she said. "I won’t turn it down. How could I? Who knows when the next Artemis Fowl will turn up?"

In Holly’s ears, her voice sounded distant, as though someone else were speaking. She imagined the bells of lifelong boredom clanging behind her every word. A desk job. She had a desk job.

Root patted her on the shoulder, his huge hand knocking the air from her lungs. "Cheer up, Captain. There is life belowground, you know."

"I know," Holly said with an utter lack of conviction.

The police cruiser pulled in beside E37. Root opened the car door, began to disembark, then stopped.

"If it makes any difference," he said quietly, almost awkwardly, "I’m proud of you, Holly." And he was gone, out the door and into the throng of LEP officers training their weapons on the chute entrance.

It does make a difference, thought Holly, watching the commander instantly take command of the situation. A big difference.

The chutes were natural magma vents that stretched from the earth’s core to the planet’s surface. Most emerged under water, supplying warm streams that nurtured deep-sea life, but some filtered their gasses through the network of cracks and fissures that riddled the dry land surface. The LEP used the power of magma flares to propel their officers to the surface in titanium eggs. A more leisurely shuttle trip could be taken in a dormant chute. E37 emerged in downtown Paris, and until recently, had been the chute used by goblins in their smuggling operations. Closed to the public for many years, the chute’s terminal had fallen into disrepair. Currently, E37’s only occupants were the members of a movie company that was making a TV film about the B’wa Kell rebellion. Holly was being portrayed by three-time AMP winner, Skylar Peat, and Artemis Fowl was to be completely computer generated.

When Holly and Root arrived, Major Trouble Kelp had three squads of tactical LEP arranged around the terminal’s entrance.

"Fill me in, Major," ordered Root.

Kelp pointed to the entrance. "We have one way in, and no way out. All the secondary entrances have long since subsided, so if Scalene is in there, he has to go through us to go home."

"Are we sure he’s there?"

"No," admitted Major Kelp. "We picked up his signal. But whoever helped him to escape could have sliced open his head and removed the transmitter. All we know for sure is that someone is playing games with us. I sent in a couple of my best Recon sprites and they came back with this." Trouble handed them a sound wafer. The wafers were the size of a thumbnail and were generally used to record short birthday greetings. This one was in the shape of a birthday cake. Root closed his fingers around the wafer. The heat from his hand would power its microcircuits.

A sibilant voice issued from the tiny speaker, made even more reptilian by the cheap wiring.

"Root," said the voice. "I would speak to you. I would tell you a great secret. Bring the female, Holly Short. Two only, no more. Any more, and many will die. My comrades will see to it . . ." The message ended with a traditional birthday jingle, its cheeriness at odds with the message.

Root scowled. "Goblins. Drama queens, the lot of them."

"It’s a trap, Commander," said Holly without hesitation.

"We were the ones at Koboi Labs a year ago. The goblins hold us responsible for the rebellion’s failure. If we go in there, who knows what’s waiting for us."

Root nodded approvingly. "Now you’re thinking like a major. We’re not expendable. So what are our options, Trouble?"

"If you don’t go in, many will die. If you do, you might."

"Not a nice set of options. Don’t you have anything good to tell me?"

Trouble lowered his helmet’s visor, consulting a mini-screen on the Perspex. "We managed to get the terminal’s security scanners back online and ran substance and thermal scans. We found a single heat source in the access tunnel, so Scalene is alone, if it’s him. Whatever he’s doing in there, he doesn’t have any known form of weaponry or explosives. Just a few beetle bars and some good old H2O."

"Any magma flares due?" asked Holly.

Trouble ran his index finger along a pad on his left glove, scrolling down the screen on his visor. "Nothing for a couple of months. That chute is intermittent. So Scalene is not planning to bake you."

Root’s cheeks glowed like two heating coils. "D’Arvit," he swore. "I thought our goblin troubles were over. I’m tempted just to send in tactical and take a chance that Scalene is bluffing."

"That would be my advice," said Trouble. "He doesn’t have anything in there that could harm you. Give me five fairies, and we’ll have Scalene in a wagon before he knows he’s been arrested."

"I take it the sleeper half of the seeker-sleeper is not working?" said Holly.

Trouble shrugged. "We have to suppose it’s not. The seeker-sleeper didn’t function until now, and when we got here the wafer was left out for us. Scalene knew we were coming. He even left a message."

Root punched his palm with a fist. "I have to go in. There’s no immediate danger inside, and we can’t assume that Scalene hasn’t come up with a way to carry out his threat. I don’t have a choice, not really. I won’t order you to come with me, Captain Short."

Holly felt her stomach lurch, but she swallowed the fear. The Commander was right. There was no other way. This was what being an LEP officer was all about. Protecting the People.

"You don’t have to order me, Commander. I volunteer."

"Good. Now, Trouble, let Foaly and his shuttle through the barricade. We may have to go in, but we don’t have to go in unarmed."

Foaly had more weaponry crammed into the back of a single shuttle than most human police forces had in their entire arsenal. Every inch of wall space had a power cable screwed into it or a rifle dangling from a hook. The centaur sat in the center, fine-tuning a Neutrino handgun. He tossed it to Holly as she entered the van.

She caught it deftly. "Hey, careful with that."

Foaly snickered. "Don’t worry. The trigger hasn’t been coded yet. Nobody can fire this weapon until its computer registers an owner. Even if this weapon did fall into goblin hands, it would be useless to them. One of my latest developments. After the B’wa Kell rebellion, I thought it was time to upgrade our security."

Holly wrapped her fingers around the pistol’s grip. A red scanner light ran the length of the plastic butt, then switched to green.

"That’s it. You’re the owner. From now on that Neutrino 3000 is a one-female gun."

Holly hefted the transparent gun in her fist. "It’s too light. I prefer the 2000."

Foaly brought the gun’s specifications up on a wall screen. "It’s light, but you’ll get used to it. On the plus side, there are no metal parts. It’s powered by kinetics, the motion of your body, with a backup mini-nuke cell. Naturally it’s linked to a targeting system in your helmet. The casing is virtually impregnable, and if I do say so myself, it’s a cool piece of hardware."

Foaly passed a larger version of the gun to Root. "Every shot is registered on the LEP computer, so we can tell who fired, when they fired, and in what direction. That should save internal affairs a lot of computer time." He winked at Holly. "Something you’ll be glad to hear."

Holly leered back at the centaur. She was well known to IA. They had already conducted two inquiries into her professional conduct, and would just love the opportunity to conduct a third. The one good thing about being promoted would be the looks on their faces when the commander pinned those major’s acorns to her lapel.

Root holstered his weapon. "Okay. Now we can shoot. But what if we get shot?"

"You won’t get shot," insisted Foaly. "I’ve hacked into the terminal scanners, I’ve planted a couple of sensors of my own, too. There’s nothing in there that can harm you. Worst-case scenario, you trip over your own feet and get a sprained ankle."

Root’s complexion reddened all the way down his neck. "Foaly, do I have to remind you that your sensors have been fooled before, in this very terminal, if I remember correctly."

"Okay, okay. Take it easy, Commander," said Foaly under his breath. "I haven’t forgotten about last year. How could I with Holly reminding me every five minutes?"

The centaur hefted two sealed suitcases onto a workbench. He keyed in a number sequence on their security pads and popped the lids. "These are the next-generation Recon suits. I was planning to unveil them at the LEP conference next month, but with a real-live commander going into action, you better have them today."

Holly pulled a jumpsuit from the case. It glittered briefly, then turned the color of the van walls.

"The fabric is actually woven from cam-foil, so you are virtually hidden all the time. It saves you using your magical shield," explained Foaly. "Of course the function can be turned off. The wings are built into this suit. A completely retractable whisper design, a brand-new concept in wing construction. They take their power from a cell on your belt, and of course each wing is coated with mini-solars for aboveground flights. The suits also have their own pressure equalizers; now you can go directly from one environment to another without getting the bends."

Root held the second suit before him. "These must cost a fortune."

Foaly nodded. "You have no idea. Half of my research budget for last year went to developing those suits. They won’t replace the old suit for five years at least. Those two are the only operational models we have, so I would appreciate getting them back. They are shockproof, fire resistant, invisible to radar, and relay a continuous stream of diagnostic information back to Police Plaza. The current LEP helmet sends us basic vitals data, but the new suit sends a second stream of information that can tell us if your arteries are blocked, diagnose fractured bones, and even detect dry skin. It’s a flying clinic. There’s even a bulletproof plate on the chest, in case a human shoots at you."

Holly held the suit before a green plasma screen. The cam-foil instantly turned emerald.

"I like it," she said. "Green is my color."

Trouble Kelp had commandeered spotlights left on-site by the movie company and directed them into the shuttleport’s lower level. The stark light picked up every floating speck of dust, giving the entire departures area an underwater feel. Commander Root and Captain Short edged into the room, weapons drawn and visors down.

"What do you think of the suit?" asked Holly, automatically keeping track of the various displays on the inside of her visor. LEP trainees often had difficulty developing the double focus needed to watch the terrain and their helmet screens. This often resulted in an action known as filling the vase, which was how LEP officers referred to throwing up in one’s helmet.

"Not bad," replied Root. "Light as a feather, and you wouldn’t even know you were wearing wings. Don’t tell Foaly I said that; his head is swelled enough as it is."

"No need to tell me, Commander," said Foaly’s voice in his earpiece. The speakers were a new gel-vibration variety, and it sounded as though the centaur was in the helmet with him. "I’m with you every step of the way, from the safety of the shuttle, of course."

"Of course," said Root dourly.

The pair advanced cautiously past a line of check-in booths. Foaly had assured them that there was no possible danger in this area of the terminal, but the centaur had been wrong before. And mistakes in the field cost lives.

The film company had decided that the actual dirt in the terminal was not authentic enough, and so had sprayed piles of gray foam in various corners. They had even added a doll’s head to one mound. A poignant touch, or so they thought. The walls and escalator were blackened with fake laser burns.

"Quite a shooting match," said Root, grinning.

"Slightly exaggerated. I doubt if half a dozen shots were fired."

They proceeded through the embarkation area into the docking zone. The original shuttle used by the goblins in their smuggling runs had been resurrected and lay in the docking bay. The shuttle had been painted gloss black to make it seem more menacing, and a goblinesque decorated prow had been added to its nose.

"How far?" said Root into his mike.

"I’m transferring the thermal signature to your helmets," replied Foaly.

Seconds later a schematic appeared in their visors. The plan was slightly confusing, as, in effect, they were looking down on themselves. There were three heat sources in the building. Two were close together, moving slowly toward the chute itself: Holly and the commander. The third figure was stationary in the access tunnel. Inches past the third figure, the thermoscan was whited out by the ambient heat from E37.

They reached the blast doors: seven feet of solid steel that separated the access tunnel from the rest of the terminal. Shuttles and eggs would glide in on a magnetized rail, to be dropped into the chute itself. The doors were sealed.

"Can you open these remotely, Foaly?"

"But of course, Commander. I have managed, quite ingeniously, to marry my operating system with the terminal’s old computers. That wasn’t as easy as it sounds . . ."

"I’ll take your word for it," said the commander, cutting Foaly off. "Just push the button, before I come out there and push it with your face."

"Some things never change," muttered Foaly, pushing the button.

The access tunnel smelled like a blast furnace. Ancient swirls of melted ore hung from the roof, and the ground underfoot was cracked and treacherous. Each footfall punctured a crust of soot, leaving a trail of deep footprints. There was another set of footprints leading to the shadowy figure huddled on the ground a few feet from the chute itself.

"There," said Root.

"Got him," said Holly, resting the bull’s-eye of her laser sight on the figure’s trunk.

"Keep him covered," ordered the commander. "I’m going down."

Root advanced along the tunnel, keeping well out of Holly’s line of fire. If Scalene did make a move, Holly would need a clear shot. But the general (if it was him) squatted immobile, his spine curled along the tunnel wall. His frame was covered by a full-length hooded cape.

The commander turned on his helmet PA, so he could be heard above the howl of core wind.

"You there. Stand facing the wall. Place your hands on your head."

The figure did not move. Holly had not expected it to. Root stepped closer, always cautious, knees bent, ready to dive to one side. He poked the figure’s shoulder with his Neutrino 3000.

"On your feet, Scalene."

The poke was sufficient to knock the figure sideways. The goblin keeled over, landing faceup on the tunnel floor. Soot flakes fluttered around him like disturbed bats. The hood flopped to one side, revealing the figure’s face: most important, the eyes.

"It’s him," said Root. "He’s been mesmerized."

The general’s slitted eyes were bloodshot and vacant. This was a serious development, as it confirmed that somebody else had planned the escape, and Holly and Root had walked into a trap.

"I recommend we leave," said Holly. "Immediately."

"No," said Root, leaning over the goblin. "Now that we’re here, we might as well take Scalene back with us."

He placed his free hand on the goblin’s collar, preparing to haul him to his feet. Later, Holly would record in her report that it was at that precise moment when things began to go terribly wrong. What had been a routine, albeit strange, assignment, suddenly became an altogether more sinister affair.

"Do not touch me, elf," said a voice. A hissing goblin voice. Scalene’s voice. But how could that be? The general’s lips had not moved.

Root reared back, then steadied himself. "What’s going on here?"

Holly’s soldier’s sense was buzzing at the base of her neck.

"Whatever it is, we won’t like it. We should go, Commander, right now."

Root’s features were thoughtful. "That voice came from his chest."

"Maybe he had surgery," said Holly. "Let’s get out of here."

The commander reached down a hand, flipping Scalene’s cape aside. There was a metal box strapped to the general’s chest. The box was a foot square with a small screen in the center. There was a shadowy face on the screen, and it was talking.

"Ah, Julius," it said in Scalene’s voice. "I knew you’d come. Commander Root’s famous ego would not allow him to stay out of the action. An obvious trap, and you walked straight into it."

The voice was definitely Scalene’s, but there was something about the phrasing, the cadence. It was too sophisticated for a goblin. Sophisticated and strangely familiar.

"Have you figured it out yet, Captain Short?" said the voice. A voice that was changing. Slipping into a higher register. The tones were no longer male, not even goblin. That’s a female talking, thought Holly. A female that I know.

A face appeared on the screen. A beautiful and malicious face. Eyes bright with hate. Opal Koboi’s face. The rest of the head was swathed in bandages, but the features were only too visible.

Holly began to speak rapidly into her helmet mike. "Foaly, we have a situation here. Opal Koboi is loose. I repeat, Koboi is loose. This whole thing is a trap. Cordon off the area, sixteen-hundred-foot perimeter, and bring in the medical warlocks. Someone is about to get hurt."

The face on the screen laughed, tiny pixie teeth glinting like pearls.

"Talk all you want, Captain Short. Foaly can’t hear you.

My device has blocked your transmissions as easily as I blocked your seeker-sleeper and the substance scan that I assume you ran. Your little centaur friend can see you, though. I left him his precious lenses."

Holly immediately zoomed in on Opal’s pixelated face. If Foaly got a shot of the pixie, he would figure out the rest.

Again Koboi laughed. Opal was genuinely enjoying herself. "Oh very good, Captain. You were always a smart one. Relatively speaking, of course. Show Foaly my face and he will initiate an alert. Sorry to disappoint you, Holly, but this entire device is constructed from stealth ore and is practically invisible to the artificial eye. All Foaly will see is a slight shimmer of interference."

Stealth ore had been developed for space vehicles. It absorbed every form of wave or signal known to fairy or man, and so was virtually invisible to everything but the naked eye. It was also incredibly expensive to manufacture. Even the small amount necessary to cover Koboi’s device would have cost a warehouse full of gold.

Root straightened quickly. "The odds are against us here, Captain. Let’s move out."

Holly didn’t bother with relief. Opal Koboi wouldn’t make things that easy. There was no way they were just walking out of here. If Foaly could hijack the terminal’s computers, then so could Koboi.

Opal’s laugh stretched to an almost hysterical screech.

"Move out? How very tactical of you, Commander. You really need to expand your vocabulary. Whatever next? Duck and cover?"

Holly peeled back a Velcro patch on her sleeve, revealing a Gnommish keyboard. She quickly accessed her helmet’s LEP criminal database, opening Opal Koboi’s file in her visor.

"Opal Koboi," said Corporal Frond’s voice. The LEP always used Frond for voice-overs and recruitment videos. She was glamorous and elegant, with flowing blond tresses and inch-long manicured nails that were absolutely no use in the field. "LEP enemy number one. Currently under guard in the J. Argon Clinic. Opal Koboi is a certified genius, scoring over three hundred on the standardized IQ test. She is also a suspected megalomaniac, with an obsessive personality. Studies indicate that Koboi may be a pathological liar, and suffers from mild schizophrenia. For more detailed information, please consult the LEP central library on the second floor of Police Plaza."

Holly closed the file. An obsessive genius and a pathological liar. Just what they needed. The information didn’t help much; it pretty much told her what she already knew. Opal was loose, she wanted to kill them, and she was smart enough to figure out how to do it.

Opal was still enjoying her triumph. "You don’t know how long I have waited for this moment," the pixie said, then paused. "Actually, you do know. After all, you were the ones who wrecked my plan. And now I have you both."

Holly was puzzled. Opal may have serious mental issues, but that could not be confused with stupidity. Why would she prattle on? Was she trying to distract them?

The same thing occurred to Root. "Holly! The doors!"

Holly whirled around to see the blast doors sliding across, the sound of their engines masked by core wind. If those doors closed they would be completely cut off from the LEP, and at the mercy of Opal Koboi.

Holly targeted the magnetic rollers along the doors’ upper rim, sinking blast after blast from her Neutrino into their mechanisms. The doors jerked in their housings, but did not stop. Two of the rollers blew out, but the massive portals’ momentum carried them together. They connected with an ominous bong.

"Alone at last," said Opal, sounding for all the world like an innocent college fairy on her first date.

Root pointed his weapon at the device belted around Scalene’s middle, as if he could somehow hurt Koboi.

"What do you want?" he demanded.

"You know what I want," replied Opal. "The question is, how am I going to get it? What form of revenge would be the most satisfying? Naturally, you will both end up dead, but that’s not enough. I want you to suffer as I did. Discredited and despised. One of you at least; the other will have to be sacrificed. I don’t really care which."

Root retreated to the blast doors, motioning for Holly to follow. "Options?" he whispered, his back to Koboi’s device.

Holly raised her visor, wiping a bead of sweat from her brow. The helmets were air-conditioned, but sometimes sweating had nothing to do with temperature.

"We have to get out of here," she said. "The chute is the only way."

Root nodded. "Agreed. We fly up far enough to clear Koboi’s blocker signal, then alert Major Kelp."

"What about Scalene? He’s mesmerized to the gills; he can’t look after himself. If we do escape, Opal is not going to leave him around as evidence."

It was basic criminal logic. Your typical take-over-the-world types are not averse to knocking off a few of their own if it means a clean getaway.

Root actually growled. "It really tugs my beard to put us in harm’s way over a goblin, but that’s the job. We take Scalene with us. I want you to sink a few charges into that box around his waist, and when the buzzing stops, I throw him over my shoulder and we’re off up E37."

"Understood," said Holly, lowering the setting on her weapon to minimum. Some of the charge would be transferred to Scalene, but it wouldn’t do much more than dry up his eyeballs for a couple of minutes.

"Ignore the pixie. Whatever she says, keep your mind on the job."

"Yes, sir."

Root took several deep breaths. Somehow it calmed Holly to see the commander as nervous as she was. "Okay. Go."

The two elves turned and strode rapidly toward the unconscious goblin.

"Have we come up with a little plan?" said Koboi, mocking them from the small screen. "Something ingenious, I hope. Something I haven’t thought of?"

Grim faced, Holly tried to shut out the words, but they wormed their way into her thoughts. Something ingenious? Hardly. It was simply the only option open to them. Something Koboi hadn’t thought of? Doubtful. Opal conceivably could have been planning this for almost a year. Were they just about to do exactly what she wanted?

"Sir . . ." began Holly, but Root was already in position beside Scalene.

Holly fired six charges at the small screen. All six impacted on Koboi’s pixelated features. Opal’s image disappeared in a storm of static. Sparks squeezed between the metal seams and acrid smoke leaked through the speaker grid.

Root hesitated for a moment, allowing any charge to disperse, then grabbed Scalene firmly by the shoulders.

Nothing happened.

I was wrong, thought Holly, releasing a breath she did not realize she’d been holding. I was wrong, thank the gods. Opal has no plan. But it wasn’t true, and Holly didn’t really believe it.

The box around Scalene’s midriff was secured by a set of octo-bonds, eight telescoping cables often used by the LEP to restrain dangerous criminals. They could be locked and unlocked remotely, and once cinched, could not be removed without the remote or an angle grinder. As soon as Root leaned over, the octo-bonds released Scalene and whiplashed around the commander’s torso, releasing Scalene and drawing the metal box tight to Root’s own chest.

Koboi’s face appeared on the reverse side of the box. The smokescreen had been just that: a smokescreen.

"Commander Root," she said, almost breathless with malice. "It looks like you’re the sacrifice."

"D’Arvit!" swore Root, beating the metal box with the butt of his pistol. The cords tightened until Root’s breath came in agonized spurts. Holly heard more than one rib crack. The commander fought the urge to sink to his feet. Magical blue sparks played around his torso, automatically healing the broken bones.

Holly rushed forward to help, but before she could reach her superior officer, an urgent beeping began to emanate from the device’s speaker. The closer she got, the louder the beep.

"Stay back," grunted Root. "Stay back. It’s a trigger."

Holly stopped in her sooty tracks, punching the air in frustration. But the commander was probably right. She had heard of proximity triggers before. Dwarfs used them in the mines. They would set a charge in the tunnels, activate a proximity trigger, and then set it off from a safe distance, using a stone.

Opal’s face reappeared on the screen.

"Listen to your Julius, Captain Short," advised the pixie. "This is a moment for caution. Your commander is quite right: the tone you hear is indeed a proximity trigger. If you come too close, he will be vaporized by the explosive gel packed into the metal box."

"Stop lecturing and tell us what you want," snarled Root.

"Now, now, Commander, patience. Your worries will be over soon enough. In fact they are already over, so why don’t you just wait quietly while your final seconds tick away."

Holly circled the commander, keeping the beep constant, until her back was to the chute. "There’s a way out of this, Commander," she said. "I just need to think. I need a minute to sort things out."

"Let me help you to sort things out," said Koboi mockingly, her childlike features ugly with malice. "Your LEP comrades are currently trying to laser their way in here. Of course they will never make it in time. But you can bet that my old school chum, Foaly, is glued to his video screen. So what does he see? He sees his good friend Holly Short apparently holding a gun on her commander. Now why would she want to do that?"

"Foaly will figure it out," said Root. "He beat you before."

Opal remote-tightened the octo-bonds, forcing the commander to his knees. "Maybe he would figure it out at that. If he had time. But unfortunately for you, time is almost up."

On Root’s chest, a digital readout flickered to life. There were two numbers on the readout. A six and a zero. Sixty seconds.

"One minute to live, Commander. How does that feel?"

The numbers began ticking down.

The ticking and the beeping and Opal’s snide sniggers drilled into Holly’s brain. "Shut it down, Koboi. Shut it down, or I swear I’ll . . ."

Opal’s laughter was unrestrained. It echoed through the access tunnel like the attack screech of a harpy.

"You will what? Exactly. Die beside your commander?"

More cracks. More ribs broken. The blue sparks of magic circled Root’s torso like stars caught in a whirlwind.

"Go now," he grunted. "Holly. I am ordering you to leave."

"With respect, Commander. No. This isn’t over yet."

"Forty-eight," said Opal in a happy singsong voice. "Forty-seven."

"Holly! Go!"

"I’d listen if I were you," said Koboi. "There are other lives at stake. Root is already dead; why not save someone who can be saved?"

Holly moaned. Another element in an already overloaded equation.

"Who can I save? Who’s in danger?"

"Oh, no one important. Just a couple of Mud Men."

Of course, thought Holly: Artemis and Butler. Two others who had put a stop to Koboi’s plan.

"What have you done, Opal?" said Holly, shouting above the proximity trigger and core wind.

Koboi’s lip drooped, mimicking a guilty child. "I’m afraid I may have put your human friends in danger. At this very moment they are stealing a package from the International Bank in Munich. A little package I prepared for them. If Master Fowl is as clever as he is supposed to be, he won’t open the package until he reaches the Kronski Hotel and can check for booby traps. Then a biobomb will be activated, and bye-bye obnoxious humans. You can stay here and explain all this; I’m sure it won’t take more than a few hours to sort out with Internal Affairs. Or you can try to rescue your friends."

Holly’s head reeled. The commander, Artemis, Butler. All about to die. How could she save them? There was no way to win.

"I will hunt you down, Koboi. For you, there won’t be a safe inch on the planet."

"Such venom. What if I gave you a way out? One chance to win."

Root was on his knees now, blood leaking from the corner of his mouth. The blue sparks were gone; he was out of magic.

"It’s a trap," he gasped, every syllable making him wince. "Don’t be fooled again."

"Thirty," said Koboi. "Twenty-nine."

Holly felt her forehead throb against the helmet pads. "Okay. Okay, Koboi. Tell me quickly. How do I save the commander?"

Opal took a deep theatrical breath. "On the device. There’s a sweet spot. One inch diameter. The red dot below the screen. If you hit that spot from outside the trigger area, then you overload the circuit. If you miss, even by a hair, you set off the explosive gel. It’s a sporting chance; more than you gave me, Holly Short."

Holly gritted her teeth. "You’re lying. Why would you give me a chance?"

"Don’t take the shot," said Root, strangely calm. "Just get out of range. Go and save Artemis. That’s the last order I’ll ever give you, Captain. Don’t you dare ignore it."

Holly felt as though her senses were being filtered through three feet of water. Everything was blurred and slowed down.

"I don’t have any choice, Julius."

Root frowned. "Don’t call me Julius! You always do that just before you disobey me. Save Artemis, Holly. Save him."

Holly closed one eye and aimed her pistol. The laser sights were no good for this kind of accuracy. She would have to do it manually.

"I’ll save Artemis next," she said. Holly took a deep breath, held it, and squeezed the trigger.

Holly hit the red spot. She was certain of it. The charge sank into the device, spreading across the metal face like a tiny bushfire.

"I hit it," she shouted at Opal’s image. "I hit the spot."

Koboi shrugged. "I don’t know. I thought you were a fraction low. Hard luck. I mean that sincerely."

"No!" screamed Holly.

The countdown on Root’s chest ticked faster than before, flickering through the numbers. There were mere moments left now.

The commander struggled to his feet, raising the visor on his helmet. His eyes were steady and fearless. He smiled gently at Holly. A smile that laid no blame. For once there wasn’t even a touch of feverish temper in his cheeks.

"Be well," he said, and then an orange flame blossomed in the center of his chest.

The explosion sucked the air from the tunnel, feeding on the oxygen. Multicolored flames roiled like the plumage of battling birds. Holly was shunted backward by a wall of shock waves, the force impacting every surface facing the commander. Microfilaments blew in her suit as they were overloaded with heat and force. The camera cylinder on her helmet popped right out of its groove, spinning into E37.

Holly herself was borne bodily into the chute, spinning like a twig in a cyclone. Sonix sponges in her earpieces sealed automatically as the sound of the explosion caught up with the blast. The commander had disappeared inside a ball of flame. He was gone, there was no doubt about it. Even magic could not help him now. Some things are beyond fixing.

The contents of the access tunnel, including Root and Scalene, disintegrated into a cloud of shrapnel and dust, particles ricocheting off the tunnel walls. The cloud surged down the path of least resistance, which was of course directly after Holly. She barely had time to activate her wings and climb a few meters, before flying shrapnel drilled a hole in the chute wall below her.

Holly hovered in the vast tunnel, the sound of her own breathing filling the helmet. The commander was dead. It was unbelievable. Just like that, at the whim of a vengeful pixie. Had there been a sweet spot on the device? Or had she actually missed the target? She would probably never know. But to the LEP observers, it would seem as though she had shot her own commander.

Holly glanced downward. Below her, fragments from the explosion were spiraling toward the earth’s core. As they neared the revolving magma sphere, the heat ignited each one, utterly cremating all that was left of Julius Root. For the briefest moment the particles twinkled gold and bronze, like a million stars falling to earth.

Holly hung there for several minutes, trying to absorb what had happened. She couldn’t. It was too awful. Instead she froze the pain and guilt, preserving it for later. Right now, she had an order to follow. And she would follow it, even if it was the last thing she ever did, because it had been the last order Julius Root ever gave.

Holly increased the power to her wings, rising through the massive charred chute. There were Mud Men to be saved.





CHAPTER 4

NARROW ESCAPES





Munich

Munich during working hours was like any other major city in the world: utterly congested. In spite of the U-bahn, an efficient and comfortable rail system, the general population preferred the privacy and comfort of their own cars, with the result that Artemis and Butler were stuck on the airport road in a rush-hour traffic jam that stretched all the way from the International Bank to the Kronski Hotel.

Master Artemis did not like delays. But today he was too focused on his latest acquisition, The Fairy Thief, still sealed in its Perspex tube. Artemis itched to open it, but the previous owners, Sparrow and Crane, could have somehow booby-trapped the container. Just because there were no visible traps didn’t mean that there couldn’t be an invisible one. An obvious trick would be to vacuum pack the canvas, then inject a corrosive gas that would react with oxygen, and burn the painting.

It took almost two hours to reach the hotel, a journey that should have taken twenty minutes. Artemis changed into a dark cotton suit, then called up Fowl Manor’s number on his mobile phone’s speed dial. But before he connected, he linked the phone by firewire to his Powerbook, so he could record the conversation. Angeline Fowl answered on the third ring.

"Arty," said his mother, sounding slightly out of breath, as though she had been in the middle of something. Angeline Fowl did not believe in taking life easy, and was probably halfway through a Tae Bo workout.

"How are you, Mother?"

Angeline sighed down the phone line. "I’m fine, Arty, but you sound like you’re doing a job interview, as usual. Always so formal. Couldn’t you call me Mom or even Angeline? Would that be so terrible?"

"I don’t know, Mother. Mom sounds so infantile. I am fourteen now, remember?"

Angeline laughed. "How could I forget? Not many teenage boys ask for a ticket to a genetics’ symposium for their birthday."

Artemis had one eye on the Perspex tube. "And how is Father?"

"He is wonderful," gushed Angeline. "I am surprised how well he is. That prosthetic leg of his is marvelous, and so is his outlook. He never complains. I honestly think that he’s got a better attitude toward life now than he did before he lost his leg. He’s under the care of a remarkable therapist, who says the mental is far more important than the physical. In fact, we leave for the private spa in Westmeath this evening. They use this marvelous seaweed treatment, which should do wonders for your father’s muscles."

Artemis Fowl senior had lost a leg before his kidnap by the Russian Mafiya. Luckily, Artemis had been able to rescue him with Butler’s help. It had been an eventful year. Since Artemis senior’s return, he had been making good on his promise to turn over a new leaf and go straight. Artemis junior was expected to follow suit, but was having trouble abandoning his criminal ventures. Although, sometimes when he looked at his father and mother together, the idea of being a normal son to loving parents didn’t seem like such a far-fetched one.

"Is he doing his physiotherapy exercises twice a day?"

Angeline laughed again, and suddenly Artemis wished he were home.

"Yes, Granddad. I am making sure of that. Your father says he’ll run the marathon in twelve months."

"Good, I’m glad to hear it. Sometimes I think you two would spend your time wandering around the grounds holding hands if I didn’t check up on you."

His mother sighed, and static rushed through the speaker. "I’m worried about you, Arty. Someone your age shouldn’t be quite so . . . responsible. Don’t worry about us; worry about school and friends. Think about what you really want to do. Use that big brain of yours to make yourself and other people happy. Forget the family business. Living is the family business now."

Artemis didn’t know how to reply. Half of him wanted to point out that there really would be no family business if it weren’t for him secretly safeguarding it. The other half of him wanted to get on a plane home and wander the grounds with his family.

His mother sighed again. Artemis hated that just talking to him could make her worry.

"When will you be home, Arty?"

"The trip ends in three more days."

"I mean, when will you be home for good. I know Saint Bartleby’s is a family tradition, but we want you home with us. Principal Guiney will understand. There are plenty of good day schools locally."

"I see," said Artemis. Could he do it? he wondered. Just be part of a normal family. Abandon his criminal enterprises. Was it in him to live an honest life?

"The holidays are in a couple of weeks. We can talk then," he said. Using a delay tactic, he continued, "To be honest, I can’t concentrate now. I’m not feeling very well. I thought I might have food poisoning, but it turns out to be just a twenty-four-hour bug. The local doctor says I will be fine tomorrow."

"Poor Arty," crooned Angeline. "Maybe I should put you on a plane home."

"No, Mother. I’m feeling better already. Honestly."

"Whatever you like. I know bugs are uncomfortable, but it’s better than a dose of food poisoning. You could have been laid low for weeks. Drink plenty of water, and try to sleep."

"I will, Mother."

"You’ll be home soon?"

"Yes. Tell father I called."

"I will, if I can find him. He’s in the gym, I think, on the treadmill."

"Good-bye, then."

"Bye, Arty, we’ll talk more about this on your return," said Angeline, her voice low and slightly sad, sounding very far away.

Artemis ended the call and immediately replayed it on his computer. Every time he spoke to mother he felt guilty. Angeline Fowl had a way of awakening his conscience. This was a relatively new development. A year ago he may have felt a tiny pinprick of guilt at lying to his mother, but now even the minor trick he was about to play would haunt his thoughts for weeks.

Artemis watched the sound-wave meter on his computer screen. He was changing, no doubt about it.

This kind of self-doubt had been increasing over the past several months—ever since he had discovered mysterious mirrored contact lenses in his own eyes one morning. Butler and Juliet had been wearing the same lenses. They had tried to find out where the lenses had come from, but all that Butler’s contact in that field would say was that Artemis himself had paid for them. Curiouser and curiouser.

The lenses remained a mystery. And so did Artemis’s feelings. On the table before him was Hervé’s The Fairy Thief, an acquisition that established him as the foremost thief of the age. A status he had longed for since the age of six. But now that his ambition was literally in his grasp, all he could think about was his family.

Is now the time to retire? he thought. Age fourteen and three months, the best thief in the world. After all, where can I go from here? He replayed a section of the phone conversation again: Don’t worry about us, worry about school and friends. Think about what you really want to do. Use that big brain of yours to make yourself and other people happy.

Maybe his mother was right: he should use his talents to make others happy. But there was a darkness in him. A hard surface on his heart that would not be satisfied with the quiet life. Maybe there were ways to make people happy that only he could achieve. Ways on the far side of the law. Over the thin blue line.

Artemis rubbed his eyes. He could not come to a conclusion. Perhaps living at home full time would make the decision for him. Best to continue with the job at hand. Buy some time, and then authenticate the painting. Even though he felt some guilt about stealing the masterpiece, it was not nearly enough to make him give it back. Especially to Messrs. Crane and Sparrow.

The first task was to deflect any inquiries from the school as to his activities. He would need at least two days to authenticate the painting, as some of the tests would need to be contracted out.

Artemis opened an audio manipulation program on his Powerbook and set about cutting and pasting his mother’s words from the recorded phone call. When he had selected the words he wanted, and put them in the right order, he smoothed the levels to make the speech sound natural.

When Principal Guiney turned on his mobile phone after the visit to Munich’s Olympia Stadium, there would be a new message waiting for him. It would be from Angeline Fowl, and she would not be in a good mood.

Artemis routed the call through Fowl Manor, then sent the edited sound file by infrared to his own mobile phone.

"Principal Guiney." The voice was unmistakably Angeline Fowl’s, and the caller ID would confirm it. "I’m worried about Arty. He has a dose of food poisoning. His outlook is marvelous and he never complains, but we want him home with us. You understand. I put Arty on a plane home. I am surprised he got a dose of food poisoning under your care. We will talk more on your return."

That took care of school for a few days. The dark half of Artemis felt an electric thrill at the subterfuge, but his growing conscience felt a tug of guilt at using his mother’s voice to weave his web of lies.

He banished the guilt. It was a harmless lie. Butler would escort him home, and his education would not suffer through a few days’ absence. As for stealing The Fairy Thief, theft from thieves was not real crime. It was almost justifiable. Yes, said a voice in his head, unbidden. If you give the painting back to the world.

No, replied his granite-hearted half. This painting is mine until someone can steal it away. That’s the whole point.

Artemis banished his indecision and turned off his mobile phone. He needed to focus completely on the painting, and a vibrating phone at the wrong moment could cause his hand to jitter. His natural inclination was to pop the stopper on the Perspex tube’s lid. But that could be more than foolish: it could be fatal. There were any number of little gifts that Crane and Sparrow could have left for him.

Artemis took a chromatograph from the rigid suitcase that contained his lab equipment. The instrument would take a sample of the gas inside the tube and process it. He chose a needle nozzle from a selection of several and screwed it on to the rubber tube protruding from the chromatograph’s flat end. He held the needle carefully in his left hand. Artemis was ambidextrous, but his left hand was slightly steadier. With care, he poked the needle through the tube’s silicon seal, into the space around the painting. It was essential that the needle be moved as little as possible, so the container’s gas could not leak out and mingle with the air. The chromatograph siphoned a small sample of gas, sucking it into a heated injection port. Any organic impurities were driven off by heating, and a carrier gas transported the sample through a separation column and into a Flame Ionization Detector. There, individual components were identified. Seconds later a graph flashed up on the instrument’s digital readout. The percentages of oxygen, hydrogen, methane, and carbon dioxide matched a sample taken earlier from downtown Munich. There was a five percent slice of gas which remained unidentified. But that was normal. This was probably caused by complex pollution gases or equipment sensitivity. Mystery gas aside, Artemis knew that it was perfectly safe to open the tube. He did so, carefully slitting the seal with a craft knife.

Artemis put on a set of surgical gloves and teased the painting from the cylinder. It plopped onto the table in a tight roll, but sprung loose almost immediately. It hadn’t been in the tube long enough to retain the shape. Artemis spread the canvas wide, weighing the corners with smooth gel sacs. He knew immediately that this was no fake. His eye for art took in the primary colors and layered brushwork. Hervé’s figures seemed to be composed of light. So beautifully were they painted that the picture seemed to sparkle. It was exquisite. In the picture a swaddled baby slept in its sun-drenched cot near an open window. A fairy with green skin and gossamer wings had alighted on the windowsill and was preparing to snatch the baby from its cradle. Both of the creature’s feet were on the outside of the sill.

"It can’t go inside," muttered Artemis absently, and was immediately surprised. How did he know that? He didn’t generally voice opinions without some evidence to back them up.

Relax, he told himself. It was simply a guess. Perhaps based on a sliver of information he had picked up on one of his Internet trawls.

Artemis returned his attention to the painting itself. He had done it. The Fairy Thief was his, for the moment at any rate. He selected a surgical scalpel from his kit and scraped the tiniest sliver of paint from the picture’s border. He deposited the sliver in a sample jar and labeled it. This would be sent to the Technical University of Munich, where they had one of the giant spectrometers necessary for carbon dating. Artemis had a contact there. The radiocarbon test would confirm that the painting, or at least the paint, was as old as it was supposed to be.

He called to Butler in the suite’s other room.

"Butler, could you take this sample over to the university now. Remember, give it only to Christiana, and remind her that speed is vital."

There was no answer for a moment, then Butler came charging through the door, his eyes wide. He did not look like a man coming to collect a paint sample.

"Is there a problem?" asked Artemis.

Two minutes earlier, Butler had been holding his hand to the window, lost in a rare moment of self-absorption. He glared at the hand, almost as if the combination of sunlight and staring would make the skin transparent. He knew that there was something different about him. Something hidden below the skin. He had felt strange this past year. Older. Perhaps the decades of physical hardship were taking their toll on him. Though he was barely forty, his bones ached at night and his chest felt as though he were wearing a Kevlar vest all the time. He was certainly nowhere near as fast as he had been at thirty-five, and even his mind seemed less focused, more inclined to wander. . . . Just as it is doing now, the bodyguard scolded himself silently.

Butler flexed his fingers, straightened his tie, and got back to work. He was not at all happy with the security of the hotel suite. Hotels were a bodyguard’s nightmare. Service elevators, isolated upper floors, and totally inadequate escape routes made the principal’s safety almost impossible to guarantee. The Kronski was luxurious, certainly, and the staff efficient, but that was not what Butler looked for in a hotel. He looked for a ground-floor room with no windows and a six-inch steel door. Needless to say, rooms like this were impossible to find, and even if he could find one, Master Artemis would undoubtedly turn up his nose at it. Butler would have to make do with this third-story suite.

Artemis wasn’t the only one with a case of instruments. Butler opened a chrome briefcase on the coffee table. It was one of a dozen such cases that he held in safe-deposit boxes in the world’s capitals. Each case was full to bursting with surveillance equipment, counter surveillance equipment, and weaponry. Having one in each country meant that he did not have to break customs laws on each overseas trip from Ireland.

He selected a bug sweeper and quickly ran it around the room, searching for listening devices. He concentrated on the electrical appliances: phone, television, fax machine. The electronic waffle from those items could often drown a bug’s signal, but not with this particular sweeper. The Eye Spy was the most advanced sweeper on the market and could detect a pinhole mike half a mile away.

After several minutes he was satisfied, and was on the point of returning the device to the case, when it registered a tiny electrical field. Nothing much, barely a single flickering blue bar on the indicator. The first bar solidified, then turned bright blue. The second bar began to flicker. Something electronic was closing in on them. Most men would have discounted the reading. After all, there were several thousand electronic devices within a square mile of the Kronski Hotel. But normal electronic fields did not register on the Eye Spy, and Butler was not most men. He extended the sweeper’s aerial, and panned the device around the room. The reading spiked when the aerial was pointed at the window. A claw of anxiety tugged at Butler’s intestines. Something airborne was coming closer at high speed.

He dashed to the window, ripped the net curtains from their hooks, and flung open the window. The winter air was pale blue with remarkably few clouds. Jet trails crisscrossed the sky like a giant’s game of tic-tac-toe. And there, twenty degrees up—a gentle spiraling curve— was a tear-shaped rocket of blue metal. A red light winked on its nose, and white-hot flames billowed from its rear end. The rocket was heading for the Kronski, no doubt about it.

It’s a smart bomb, Butler said to himself without one iota of doubt. And Master Artemis is the target.

Butler’s brain began flicking through his list of alternatives. It was a short list. There were only two choices, really: get out or die. It was how to get out that was the problem. They were three stories up with the exit on the wrong side. He spared a moment to take one last look at the approaching missile. It was unlike anything he’d ever seen. Even the emission was different from conventional weapons, with hardly any vapor trail. Whatever this was, it was brand new. Somebody must want Artemis dead very badly.

Butler turned from the window and barged into Artemis’s bedroom. The young master was busy conducting his tests on The Fairy Thief.

"Is there a problem?" asked Artemis.

Butler did not reply because he didn’t have time. Instead he grabbed the teenager by the scruff of the neck and hoisted him onto his own back.

"The painting!" Artemis managed to shout, his voice muffled by the bodyguard’s jacket.

Butler grabbed the picture, unceremoniously stuffing the priceless masterpiece into his jacket pocket. If Artemis had been able to see the century-old oil paint crack, he would have sobbed. But Butler was only paid to protect one thing, and it was not The Fairy Thief.

"Hang on extremely tightly," advised the massive bodyguard, hefting a king-size mattress from the bed.

Artemis held on tight as he’d been told, trying not to think. Unfortunately his brilliant brain automatically analyzed the available data: Butler had entered the room at speed and without knocking; therefore, there was danger of some kind. His refusal to answer questions meant that the danger was imminent. And the fact that Artemis was on Butler’s back, hanging on tightly, indicated that they would not be escaping the aforementioned danger through conventional exit routes. The mattress would indicate that some cushioning would be needed.

"Butler," gasped Artemis. "You do know that we’re three stories up?"

Butler might have answered, but his employer did not hear him, because by then the giant bodyguard had propelled them through the open double windows and over the balcony railing.

For a fraction of a second, before the inevitable fall, the air currents spun the mattress around, and Artemis could see back into his own bedroom. In that splinter of a moment, he saw a strange missile corkscrew through the bedroom door and come to a complete halt directly over the empty Perspex tube. There was some kind of tracker in the tube, said the tiny portion of his brain that wasn’t panicking. Someone wants me dead.

Then came the inevitable fall. Thirty feet. Straight down.

Butler automatically spread his limbs in a skydiving X, bearing down on the four corners of the mattress to stop it from flipping. The trapped air below the mattress slowed their fall slightly, but not much. The pair went straight down, fast, G-force increasing their speed with every inch.

Sky and ground seemed to stretch and drip like oil paints on a canvas, and nothing seemed solid anymore. This impression came to an abrupt halt when they slammed into the extremely solid tiled roof of a maintenance shed at the hotel’s rear. The tiles seemed to almost explode under the impact, though the roof timbers held—barely. Butler felt as though his bones had been liquidized, but he knew that he would be okay after a few moments of unconsciousness. He had been in worse collisions before.

His last impression before his senses deserted him was the feel of Master Artemis’s heartbeat through his jacket. Alive, then. They had both survived. But for how long? If their assassin had seen his attempt fail, then maybe he would try again.

Artemis’s impact was cushioned by Butler and the mattress. Without them he certainly would have been killed. As it was, the bodyguard’s muscle-bound frame was dense enough to break two of his ribs. Artemis bounced a full three feet into the air before coming to rest on the unconscious bodyguard’s back, facing the sky.

Each breath was short and painful, and two nubs of bone rose like knuckles from his chest. Sixth and seventh rib, he guessed.

Overhead, a block of iridescent blue light flashed from his hotel window. It lit the sky for a split second, its belly busy with even brighter blue flares that wriggled like hooked worms. No one would pay much attention; the light could easily have been from an oversized camera flash. But Artemis knew better.

Bio-bomb, he thought. Now, how do I know that?

Butler was unconscious or else he would be moving, so it was up to Artemis to foil their attacker’s next murderous attempt. He tried to sit up, but the pain in his chest was ferocious, and intense enough to knock him out for a second. When he came to, his entire body was slick with sweat. Artemis saw that it was too late to escape. His assassin was already here, crouched catlike on the shed wall. The killer was a strange individual, no bigger than a child but with adult proportions. She was female with pretty, sharp features, cropped auburn hair, and huge hazel eyes, but that didn’t necessarily mean any mercy would be forthcoming. Butler had once told him that eight of the top-ten paid hitters in the world were women. She wore a strange jumpsuit that shifted colors to suit the background, and those large eyes were red from crying.

Her ears are pointed, thought Artemis. Either I’m in shock, or she’s not human.

Then he made the mistake of moving again, and one of his broken ribs actually punched through the skin. A red stain blossomed on his shirt, and Artemis gave up the fight to stay conscious.

It had taken Holly only ninety minutes to reach Germany. On a normal mission it would have taken at least twice that, but Holly had decided to break a few LEP regulations. Why not? she reasoned. It wasn’t as if she could get into any more trouble. The LEP already thought she had killed the Commander, and her communications were blocked so she could not explain what really happened. No doubt she was classified as rogue, and there was a Retrieval squad already on her tail. Not to mention the fact that Opal Koboi was probably keeping electronic tabs on her. So there was no time to lose.

Ever since the goblin gangs had been caught smuggling human contraband through disused chutes, sentries had been posted in each surface shuttleport. Paris was guarded by a sleepy gnome who was only five years from retirement. He was awoken from his afternoon nap by an urgent communiqué from Police Plaza. There was a rogue Recon jock on the way up. Detain for questioning. Proceed with caution.

Nobody really expected that the gnome would have any success. Holly Short was in peak physical condition and had once lived through a tussle with a troll. The gnome sentry couldn’t even remember the last time he’d been in shape, and had to lie down if he got a hangnail. Nevertheless, the sentry gamely guarded the shuttlebay until Holly blew past him on her way to the surface.

Once in the air, she peeled back a Velcro patch on her forearm, and ran a search on her computer. The computer found the Kronski Hotel and flashed up three route options. Holly chose the shortest one, even though it meant passing over several major human population centers. More LEP regulations smashed to bits. At this point she really didn’t care. Her own career was beyond salvaging, but that didn’t matter. Holly had never been a career elf anyway. The only reason she hadn’t already been booted out of the LEP was the commander. He had seen her potential, and now he was gone.

The earth flashed by below. European smells drifted through her helmet filters. The sea, baked earth, vines, and the tang of pure snow. Generally this was what Holly lived for, but not today. Today she felt none of the usual aboveground euphoria. Today she simply felt alone. The commander had been the closest thing to family she had left. Now he was gone too. Perhaps because she had missed the sweet spot. Had she effectively killed Julius herself? It was too awful to think about, and too awful to forget.

Holly opened her visor to clear the tears. Artemis Fowl must be saved. As much for the commander as for himself. Holly closed her visor, kicked up her legs, and opened the throttle to maximum. Time to see what these new wings of Foaly’s could do.

In a little more than an hour, Holly sped into Munich’s airspace. She dropped to a hundred feet and activated her helmet’s radar. It would be a shame to make it this far only to be pasted by an incoming aircraft. The Kronski showed up as a red dot in her visor. Foaly could have sent a live satellite feed, or at least the most recent video footage, but she had no way to contact the centaur, and even if she did, the Council would order her back to Police Plaza immediately.

Holly zeroed in on the red dot in her visor. That was where the bio-bomb would be headed, so she had to go there too. She dropped lower, until the Kronski’s roof was below her toes, and touched down on the rooftop. She was on her own now. This was as far as the onboard tracker could take her. She would have to locate Artemis’s room on her own.

Holly chewed her lip for a moment, then typed a command into the keypad on her wrist. She could have used voice command, but the software was touchy and she did not have time for computer error. In seconds, her onboard computer had hacked into the hotel computer and was displaying a guest list and schematic. Artemis was in room 304. Third story, in the south wing of the hotel.

Holly sprinted across the roof, activating her wings as she ran. She was seconds away from saving Artemis. Having a mythological creature drag him from his hotel room might be a bit of a shock, but not as much of a shock as being vaporized by a bio-bomb.

She stopped dead. A guided missile was arcing in from the horizon toward the hotel. It was fairy manufactured, no doubt about it; but it was new, slicker and faster, with bigger tail rockets than she’d ever seen on a missile. Opal Koboi had obviously been making upgrades.

Holly spun on her heels, racing for the other side of the hotel. In her heart she knew she was too late, and the realization hit her that Opal had set her up again. There never was any hope of rescuing Artemis, just as there never had been any chance of rescuing the commander.

Before her wings even had a chance to kick in, there was a bright blue flash from beyond the lip of the roof, and a slight shudder underfoot as the bio-bomb detonated. It was the perfect weapon. There would be no structural damage to the hotel room, and the bomb casing would consume itself and leave no evidence that it had ever been there.

Holly dropped to her knees in frustration, peeling off her helmet to gulp breaths of fresh air. The Munich air was laced with toxins, but it still tasted better than the belowground filtered variety. But Holly did not notice the sweetness. Julius was gone. Artemis was dead. Butler was dead. How could she go on? What was the point? Tears dropped from her lashes, running into tiny cracks in the concrete.

Get up! said her core of steel. The part of her that made Holly Short such an excellent officer. You are an LEP officer. There is more at stake here than your personal grieving. Time enough to cry later.

In a minute. I’ll get up in a minute. I just need sixty seconds.

Holly felt as though the grief had scooped out her insides.

She felt hollow, numb. Incapacitated.

"How touching," said a voice, robotic and familiar.

Holly did not even look up. "Koboi. Have you come to gloat? Does murder make you happy?"

"Hmm?" said the voice, seriously considering the question. "You know, it does. It actually does make me happy."

Holly sniffled, shaking the last tears from her eyes. She decided that she would not cry again until Koboi was behind bars.

"What do you want?" she asked, rising from the concrete roof. Hovering at head height was a small bio-bomb. This model was spherical, about the size of a melon, and equipped with a plasma screen. Opal’s happy features were plastered across the monitor.

"Oh, I just followed you from the chute because I wanted to see what total despair looks like. It’s not very fetching, is it?"

For a few moments the screen displayed Holly’s own distraught face before flashing back to Opal.

"Just detonate, and be damned," growled Holly.

The bio-bomb rose a foot, slowly circling Holly’s head.

"Not just yet. I think there’s a spark of hope in you yet. So I would like to extinguish that. In a moment I will detonate the bio-bomb. Nice, isn’t it? How do you like the design? Eight separate boosters, you know. It’s what happens after the detonation that’s important."

Holly’s law-enforcer curiosity was piqued in spite of the circumstances. "What happens then, Koboi? Don’t tell me, world domination."

Koboi chuckled, the volume distorting her laugh through the bomb’s microspeakers. "World domination? You make it sound so unattainable. The first step is simplicity itself. All I have to do is put humans in contact with the People."

Holly felt her own troubles instantly slip away. "Put humans in contact with the People? Why would you do that?"

Opal’s features lost their merry cast. "Because the LEP imprisoned me. They studied me like an animal in a cage, and now we shall see how they like it. There will be a war, and I will supply the humans with the weapons to win. And after they have won, my chosen nation will be the most powerful on earth. And I, inevitably, will become the most powerful person in that nation."

Holly almost screamed. "All this for a childish pixie’s revenge."

Seeing Holly’s discomfort cheered Opal immediately. "Oh no, I’m not a pixie anymore." Koboi slowly unwound the bandages circling her head to reveal two surgically rounded humanoid ears. "I’m one of the Mud People now. I intend to be on the winning side. And my new daddy has an engineering company. And that company is sending down a probe."

"What probe?" shouted Holly. "What company?"

Opal wagged a finger. "Oh no, enough explaining. I want you to die desolate and ignorant." For one moment her face lost its false merriment, and Holly could see the hatred in her huge eyes. "You cost me a year of my life, Short. A year of a brilliant life. My time is too special to be wasted, especially answering to pathetic organizations like the LEP. Soon I will never have to answer to anyone, ever again."

Opal raised one hand into view. It was clutching a small remote. She pressed the red button. And as everyone knows, the red button can only mean one thing: Holly had milliseconds to come up with a plan. The monitor fizzled out, and a green light on the missile’s console winked red. The signal had been received. Detonation was imminent.

Holly jumped up, hooking her helmet over the spherical bomb. She put her weight on the helmet, bearing it down. It was like trying to submerge a football. LEP helmets were composed of a rigid polymer that could deflect solinium flares. Of course, the rest of Holly’s suit was not rigid and could not protect her from the biobomb, but maybe the helmet would be enough.

The bomb exploded, spinning the helmet into the air. Pure blue light gushed from the underside of the helmet, dissipating across the concrete. Ants and spiders hopped once, then their tiny hearts froze. Holly could feel her own heart speed up, battling against the deadly solinium. She held on for as long as she could, then the concussion bucked her off. The helmet spun away, and the fatal light was free.

Holly flipped her wing-control to rise, reaching for the skies. The blue light was after her like a wall of death. It was a race now. Had she gained enough time and distance to outrun the bio-bomb?

Holly felt her lips drag back across her teeth. G-force rippled the skin on her cheeks. She was counting on the fact that the bio-bomb’s active agent was light. This meant that it could be focused to a certain diameter. Koboi would not want to draw attention to her device by wiping out a city block. Holly alone was her target.

Holly felt the light swipe her toes. A dreadful feeling of nothingness crept up her leg before the magic banished it. She streamlined her body, arcing her head back, folding her arms across her chest, willing the mechanical wings to accelerate her to safety.

Suddenly the light dissipated. Flashed out, leaving only a dozen squirrelly flares in its wake. Holly had outrun the deadly light, with only minor injuries. Her legs felt weakened, but the sensation would recede shortly. Time enough to worry about that later. Now she had to return to the Lower Elements and somehow warn her comrades what Opal was planning.

Holly glanced down at the roof. Nothing remained now to suggest she’d ever been there, except the remains of her helmet, which spun like a battered top. Generally, inanimate objects were not affected by bio-bombs, but the helmet’s reflective layer had bounced the light around internally so much that it had overheated. And once the helmet had shorted out, so had all Holly’s bio-readings. As far as the LEP or Opal Koboi were concerned, Captain Short’s helmet was no longer broadcasting her heartbeat or respiratory rate. She was officially dead. And being dead had possibilities.

Something caught Holly’s eye. Far below, in the center of a cluster of maintenance buildings, several humans were converging on one hut. With her bird’s-eye view, Holly could see that the hut’s roof had been blown out. There were two figures lying in the roof timbers. One was huge, a veritable giant. The other, closer to her own size. A boy. Artemis and Butler. Could they have survived?

Holly threw her legs up behind her, diving steeply toward the crash site. She did not shield, conserving her magic. It looked as though every spark of healing power she possessed would be needed, so she would have to trust speed and her revolutionary suit to keep her hidden.

The other humans were several feet away, picking their way through the debris. They looked curious rather than angry. Still, it was vital that Holly get Artemis away from here, if he were alive. Opal could have spies anywhere and a backup plan just waiting to spring into deadly operation. It was doubtful they could cheat death again.

She landed on the shed’s gable end and peered inside. It was Artemis, all right, and Butler. Both breathing. Artemis was even conscious, though clearly in pain. Suddenly a red rose of blood spread across his white shirt, his eyes rolled back, and he began to buck. The Mud Boy was going into shock, and it looked like a rib had punctured his skin. There could be another one in his lung. He needed healing. Now.

Holly dropped to Artemis’s chest, placing a hand on the nubs of bone protruding under his heart.

"Heal," she said, and the last sparks of magic in her elfin frame sped down her arms, intuitively targeting Artemis’s injuries. The ribs shuddered, twisted elastically, then rejoined in a hiss of molten bone. Steam vented from Artemis’s shuddering body as the magic flushed impurities from his system.

Even before Artemis had finished shaking, Holly had wrapped herself around the boy as much as possible. She had to get him away from here. Ideally, she could have taken Butler, too, but he was too bulky to be shielded by her slim frame. The bodyguard would have to look out for himself, but Artemis had to be protected. Firstly because he was undoubtedly the prime target, and secondly because she needed his devious brain to help her to defeat Opal Koboi. If Opal intended to join the world of men, then Artemis was the ideal foil for her genius.

Holly locked her fingers behind Artemis’s back and hoisted his limp body into an upright position. His head lolled on her shoulder and she could feel his breath on her cheek. Regular. Good.

Holly bent her legs until her knees cracked. She would need all the leverage she could get to mask their escape. Outside the voices grew closer, and she felt the walls shake as someone inserted a key in the door.

"Good-bye, Butler, old friend," she whispered. "I’ll be back for you."

The bodyguard groaned once, as though he had heard. Holly hated to leave him, though there was no choice. It was either Artemis alone or no one, and Butler himself would thank her for what she was doing.

Holly gritted her teeth, tensed every muscle in her body, and opened the throttle wide on her wings. She took off out of that shed like a dart from a blowpipe, kicking up a fresh cloud of dust in her wake. Even if someone had been staring right at her, all they would have seen was dust and a sky-colored blur, with possibly one loafered shoe poking out. But that must have been their eyes playing tricks, because shoes couldn’t fly. Could they?





CHAPTER 5

MEET THE NEIGHBORS





E37, The Lower Elements

Foaly could not believe what was happening. His eyes were sending information to his brain, but his brain refused to accept it. Because if he were to accept this information, he would have to believe that his friend Holly Short had just shot her own commander and was now attempting to escape to the surface. This was completely impossible, though not everybody was so reluctant to accept this.

The centaur’s mobile tech shuttle had been commandeered by Internal Affairs. This operation now fell under their jurisdiction because an LEP officer was suspected of a crime. All LEP personnel had been ejected from the shuttle, but Foaly was allowed to stay simply because he was the only one able to operate the surveillance equipment.

Commander Ark Sool was an LEP gnome who went after suspect police fairies. Sool was unusually tall and thin for a gnome, like a giraffe in a baboon’s skin. His dark hair was slicked straight back in a no-nonsense style, and his fingers and ears boasted none of the golden adornments generally so beloved of the gnome families. Ark Sool was the highest-ranking gnome officer in Internal Affairs, and he believed that the LEP was basically a bunch of loose cannons who were presided over by a maverick. And now the maverick was dead, killed, apparently, by the biggest loose cannon in the bunch. Holly Short may have narrowly avoided criminal charges on two previous occasions. She would not escape this time.

"Play the video again, centaur," he instructed, tapping the worktop with his cane. Most annoying.

"We’ve looked at this a dozen times," protested Foaly. "I don’t see the point."

Sool silenced him with a glare from his red-rimmed eyes. "You don’t see the point? The centaur doesn’t see the point? I don’t see where that’s an important factor in the current equation. You, Mister Foaly, are here to press buttons, not to offer opinions. Commander Root placed far too much value on your opinions, and look where that got him, eh?"

Foaly swallowed the dozen or so acidic responses that were queuing on his tongue. If he was excluded from this operation now, he could do nothing to help Holly.

"Play the video. Yessir."

Foaly cued the video from E37. It was damning stuff. Julius and Holly hovered around General Scalene for several moments. They appeared to be quite agitated. Then for some reason, and incredible as it sounded, Holly shot the commander with some kind of incendiary bullet. At this point they lost all video feeds from both helmets.

"Back up the tape twenty seconds," ordered Sool, leaning in close to the monitor. He poked his cane into the plasma screen. "What’s that?"

"Careful with the cane," said Foaly. "These screens are expensive. I get them from Atlantis."

"Answer the question, centaur. What is that?" Sool prodded the screen twice, just to show how little he cared about Foaly’s gizmos.

The Internal Affairs Commander was pointing to a slight shimmer on Root’s chest.

"I’m not sure," admitted Foaly. "It could be heat distortion, or maybe equipment failure. Or perhaps just a glitch. I’ll have to run some tests."

Sool nodded. "Run your tests, though I don’t expect you’ll find anything. Short is a burnout, simple as that. She always was. I nearly had her before, but this time it’s cut-and-dried."

Foaly knew he should bite his tongue, but he had to defend his friend. "Isn’t this all a bit convenient. First we lose sound, so we don’t know what was said. Then there’s this fuzzy patch that could be anything; and now we’re expected to believe that a decorated officer just up and shot her commander, an elf who was like a father to her."

"Yes, I see your point, Foaly," said Sool silkily. "Very good. Nice to know you’re thinking on some level. But let’s stick to our respective jobs, eh? You build the machinery, and I operate it. For example, these new Neutrinos that our field personnel are armed with?"

"Yes, what about them?" said Foaly suspiciously.

"They are personalized to each officer, am I right? Nobody else can fire them. And each shot is registered?"

"That is correct," admitted Foaly, all too aware where this was leading.

Sool waved his cane like a symphony conductor. "Well then, surely all we have to do is check Captain Short’s weapon’s log to see if she fired a shot at the precise time indicated on the video. If she did, then the film is authentic, and Holly Short did indeed murder her commander, regardless of what we can or cannot hear."

Foaly ground his horsey teeth. Of course it made perfect sense. He had thought of it half an hour ago, and already knew what the cross-referencing would reveal. He pulled up Holly’s weapon’s log and read the relevant passage.

"Weapon registered at zero nine forty, HMT. Six pulses at zero nine fifty-six, and then one level two pulse fired at zero nine fifty-eight."

Sool slapped the cane into his palm in triumph. "One level two pulse fired at zero nine fifty-eight. Exactly right. Whatever else happened in that chute, Short fired on her commander."

Foaly leaped out of his specially tailored office chair. "But a level two pulse couldn’t cause such a big explosion. It practically caved in the entire access tunnel."

"Which is why Short isn’t in custody right now," said Sool. "It will take weeks to clean out that tunnel. I’ve had to send a Retrieval team through E1, in Tara. They will have to travel over ground to Paris and pick up her trail from there."

"But what about the explosion itself?"

Sool grimaced, as though Foaly’s questions were a bitter nugget in an otherwise delicious meal. "Oh, I’m sure there’s an explanation, centaur. Combustible gas, or a malfunction, or just bad luck. We’ll figure that out. For now my priority, and yours, is to bring Captain Short back here for trial. I want you to liaise with the Retrieval team. Feed them constant updates on Short’s position."

Foaly nodded without enthusiasm. Holly was still wearing her helmet. And the LEP helmet could verify her identity and relay a constant stream of diagnostic information back to Foaly’s computers. They had no sound or video but there was plenty of information to track Holly wherever she might go in the world, or under it. At the moment, Holly was in Germany. Her heart rate was elevated but otherwise she was okay.

Why did you run, Holly? Foaly asked his absent friend silently. If you’re innocent, why did you run?

"Tell me where Captain Short is now," demanded Sool.

The centaur maximized the live feed from Holly’s helmet on the plasma screen.

"She’s still in Germany, Munich, to be precise. She’s stopped moving now. Maybe she will decide to come home."

Sool frowned. "I seriously doubt it, centaur. She’s a bad egg, through and through."

Foaly fumed. Manners dictated that only a friend refer to another fairy by species, and Sool was no friend of his. Or anyone’s.

"We can’t say that for sure," said Foaly, through his clenched teeth.

Sool leaned even closer to the plasma screen, a slow smile stretching his tight skin. "Actually, centaur, you’re wrong there. I think we can safely say for sure that Captain Short won’t be coming back. Recall the Retrieval team immediately."

Foaly checked Holly’s screen. The life signs from her helmet were all flatlining. One second she was stressed but alive, and the next she was gone. No heartbeat, no brain activity, no temperature reading. She couldn’t have simply taken off the helmet, as there was an infrared connection between each LEP officer and their helmet. No, Holly was dead, and it hadn’t been by natural causes.

Foaly felt the tears brimming on his eyelids. Not Holly too.

"Recall the Retrieval team? Are you insane, Sool? We have to find Holly. Find out what happened."

Sool was unaffected by Foaly’s outburst. If anything, he appeared to enjoy it.

"Short was a traitor and she was obviously in collusion with the goblins. Somehow her nefarious plan backfired and she was killed. I want you to remote-activate the incinerator in her helmet immediately, and we’ll close the book on a rogue officer."

Foaly was aghast. "Activate the remote incinerator! I can’t do that."

Sool rolled his eyes. "Again with the opinions. You don’t have authority here; you just obey it."

"But I’ll have a satellite picture in thirty minutes," protested the centaur. "We can wait that long, surely."

Sool elbowed past Foaly to the keyboard. "Negative. You know the regulations. No bodies are left exposed for the humans to find. It’s a tough rule, I know, but necessary."

"The helmet could have malfunctioned," said Foaly, grasping at straws.

"Is it likely that all the life-sign readings could have flatlined at the same moment through equipment failure?"

"No," admitted Foaly.

"And just how unlikely is it?"

"About one chance in ten million," said the technical adviser miserably.

Sool picked his way around the keyboard. "If you don’t have the stomach for it, centaur. I’ll do it myself." He entered his password and detonated the incinerator in Holly’s helmet. On a rooftop in Munich, Holly’s helmet dissolved in a pool of acid. And in theory, so did Holly’s body.

"There," said Sool, satisfied. "She’s gone, and now we can all sleep a little easier."

Not me, thought Foaly, staring forlornly at the screen. It will be a very long time before I sleep easy again.

Temple Bar, Dublin, Ireland

Artemis Fowl woke from a sleep haunted by nightmares. In his dreams, strange, red-eyed creatures had ripped open his chest with scimitar tusks and dined on his heart. He sat up in an undersized cot, both hands flying to his chest. His shirt was caked with dried blood, but there was no wound. Artemis took several deep shuddering breaths, pumping oxygen through his brain. Assess the situation, Butler always told him. If you find yourself in unfamiliar territory, become familiar with it before opening your mouth. Ten seconds of observation could save your life.

Artemis looked around, eyelids fluttering like camera shutters, absorbing every detail. He was in a small box room, about ten square feet. One wall was completely transparent and appeared to look out over the Dublin quays. From the position of the Millennium Bridge, the room was somewhere in the Temple Bar area. The chamber itself was constructed from a strange material. Some kind of silver-gray fabric. Rigid, but malleable, with several plasma screens on the opaque walls. It was all extremely hi-tech, but seemed years old, and almost abandoned.

In the corner, a girl sat hunched on folding chair. She cradled her head in both hands, her shoulders hitching gently with sobs.

Artemis cleared his throat. "Why are you crying, girl?"

The girl jerked upright, and it became immediately obvious that this was no normal girl. In fact, she appeared to belong to a totally different species.

"Pointed ears," noted Artemis, with surprising composure. "Prosthetic or real?"

Holly almost smiled through her tears. "Typical Artemis Fowl. Always looking for options. My ears are very real, as you well know . . . knew."

Artemis was silent for several moments, processing the wealth of information in those few sentences.

"Real pointed ears? Then you are of another species, not human. Possibly a fairy?"

Holly nodded. "I am a fairy. Actually, an elf. I’m what you would call a leprechaun too, but that’s just a job."

"And fairies speak English, do they?"

"We speak all languages. The gift of tongues, it is part of our magic."

Artemis knew that these revelations should send his world spinning on its axis, but he found himself accepting every word. It was as though he had always suspected the existence of fairies, and this was simply confirmation. Although, strangely, he could not remember ever having even thought about fairies before this day.

"And you claim to know me? Personally or from some kind of surveillance? You certainly seem to have the technology."

"We’ve known you for a few years now, Artemis. You made first contact, and we’ve been keeping an eye on you ever since."

Artemis was slightly startled. "I made first contact?"

"Yes. December, two years ago. You kidnapped me."

"Is this your revenge? That explosive device? My ribs?" A horrible thought struck the Irish boy. "And what about Butler? Is he dead?"

Holly did her best to answer all of these questions. "It is revenge, but not mine. And Butler is alive. I just had to get you out of there before another attempt was made on your life."

"So we’re friends now?"

Holly shrugged. "Maybe. We’ll see."

All of this was slightly confusing. Even for a genius.

Artemis crossed his legs in the lotus position and rested his temples against pointed fingers.

"You had better tell me everything," he said, closing his eyes. "From the beginning. And leave nothing out."

So Holly did. She told Artemis how he had kidnapped her, then released her at the last moment. She told him how they had journeyed to the Arctic to rescue his father, and how they had foiled a goblin rebellion bankrolled by Opal Koboi. She recounted in great detail their mission to Chicago to steal back the C Cube, a super computer constructed by Artemis from pirated fairy technology. Finally, in a small quiet voice, she told of Commander Root’s death and of Opal Koboi’s sinister plot to bring the fairy and human worlds together.

Artemis sat perfectly still, absorbing hundreds of incredible facts. His brow was slightly creased as if the information were difficult to digest. Finally, when his brain had organized the data, he opened his eyes.

"Very well," he said. "I don’t remember any of this, but I believe you. I accept that we humans have fairy neighbors below the planet’s surface."

"Just like that?"

Artemis’s lip curled. "Hardly. I have taken your story and cross-referenced it with the facts as I know them. The only other scenario that could explain everything that has happened, up to and including your own bizarre appearance, is a convoluted conspiracy theory involving the Russian Mafiya and a crack team of plastic surgeons. Hardly likely. But your fairy story fits, right down to something that you could not know about, Captain Short."

"Which is?"

"After my alleged mind wipe, I discovered mirrored contact lenses in my own eyes and Butler’s. Investigation revealed that I myself had ordered the lenses, though I had no memory of the fact. I suspect that I ordered them to cheat your mesmer."

Holly nodded. It made sense. Fairies had the power to mesmerize humans, but eye contact was part of the trick, coupled with a mesmeric voice. Mirrored contact lenses would leave the subject completely in control, while pretending to be under the mesmer.

"The only reason for this would be if I had planted a trigger somewhere. Something that would cause my fairy memories to come rushing back. But what?"

"I have no idea," said Holly. "I was hoping that just seeing me would trigger recall."

Artemis smiled in a very annoying way. As one would at a small child who had just suggested that the moon was made of cheese.

"No, Captain. I would guess that your Mister Foaly’s mind-wiping technology is an advanced version of the memory-suppressant drugs being experimented with by various governments. The brain, you see, is a complex instrument; if it can be convinced that something did not happen, it will invent all kinds of scenarios to maintain that illusion. Nothing can change its mind, so to speak. Even if the conscious accepts something, the mind wipe will have convinced the subconscious otherwise. So, no matter how convincing you are, you cannot convert my altered subconscious. My subconscious probably believes that you are a hallucination or a miniature spy. No, the only way that my memories could be returned to me would be if my subconscious could not present a reasonable argument; say, if the one person that I trust completely presented me with irrefutable evidence."

Holly felt herself growing annoyed. Artemis could get under her skin like nobody else. A child who treated everyone like children.

"And who is this one person that you trust?"

Artemis smiled genuinely for the first time since Munich. "Why, myself, of course."

Munich

Butler woke to find blood dripping from the tip of his nose. It was dripping onto the white hat of the hotel chef. The chef stood with a group of hotel kitchen staff in the middle of a destroyed storage shed. The man gripped a cleaver in his hairy fist, just in case this giant on the tattered mattress wedged into the rafters was a madman.

"Excuse me," said the chef politely, which is unusual for a chef, "are you alive?"

Butler considered the question. Apparently, unlikely as it seemed, he was alive. The mattress had saved him from the strange missile. Artemis had survived, too. He remembered feeling his charge’s heartbeat just before he passed out. It wasn’t there now.

"I am alive," he grunted, a paste of tile dust and blood spilling from his lips. "Where is the boy who was with me?"

The crowd assembled in the ruined shed looked at one another.

"There was no boy," said the chef finally. "You fell through the roof all on your own."

Doubtless, this group would like an explanation or they would inform the police.

"Of course there was no boy. Forgive me; the mind tends to wander after a three-story fall."

The group nodded as one. Who could blame the giant for being a touch rattled?

"I was leaning against the railing, sunning myself, when the railing gave way. Lucky for me, I managed to grab the mattress on the way down."

This explanation was met with the mass skepticism it thoroughly deserved. The chef voiced the group’s doubts.

"You managed to grab a mattress?"

Butler had to think quickly, which is not easy when all the blood in your body is concentrated in your forehead.

"Yes. It was on the balcony. I had been resting in the sun."

This entire sun business was extremely unlikely. Especially considering that it was the middle of winter. Butler realized that there was only one way to dispel the crowd. It was drastic, but it should work.

He reached inside his jacket and pulled out a small spiral pad.

"Of course, I intend to sue the hotel for damages. Trauma alone should be worth a few million euros. Not to mention injuries. I presume I can count on you good people as witnesses."

The chef paled, as did the others. Giving evidence against one’s employers was the first step to unemployment.

"I . . . I don’t know, sir," he stammered. "I didn’t actually see anything." He paused to sniff the air. "I think I smell my Pavlova burning. Dessert will be ruined."

The chef hopped over the chunks of shattered tile, disappearing back into the hotel. The remaining staff followed his lead, and within seconds, Butler was on his own again. He smiled, though the action sent a flare of pain down his neck. The threat of a lawsuit generally scattered witnesses as effectively as any gunfire.

The giant Eurasian disentangled himself from the remains of the rafters. He really had been amazingly lucky not to be impaled on the beams. The mattress had absorbed most of the impact, and the timbers were rotten and had splintered harmlessly.

Butler dropped to the floor, brushing dust from his suit. His priority now was to find Artemis. It seemed likely that whoever had made the attempt on his life had taken the boy. Although, why would someone try to kill him and then take him prisoner? Unless their unknown enemy had taken advantage of the situation and decided to seek a ransom.

Butler returned to the hotel room, where everything was as they had left it. There was absolutely no sign that anything had exploded in here. The only unusual things revealed by Butler’s investigations were small clusters of dead insects and spiders. Curious. It was as though the blue flash of light only affected living things, leaving buildings unaffected.

A blue rinse, said his subconscious, but his conscious self took no notice.

Butler quickly packed Artemis’s box of tricks, and of course his own. The weapons and surveillance equipment would be held in a safe-deposit box at the airport. He left the Kronski Hotel without checking out. An early checkout would arouse suspicion, and with any luck, this entire matter could be resolved before the students on the school trip returned home.

The bodyguard collected the Hummer in the hotel car park and set off for the airport. If Artemis had been kidnapped, then the kidnappers would contact Fowl Manor with their ransom demand. If Artemis had simply removed himself from danger, he had always been told to head for home. Either way, the trail led to Fowl Manor, so that was where Butler intended to go.

Temple Bar, Dublin, Ireland

Artemis had recovered sufficiently for his natural curiosity to surface. He walked around the cramped room, touching the spongy surface of the walls.

"What is this place? Some form of surveillance hide?"

"Exactly," said Holly. "I was on stakeout here a few months ago. A group of rogue dwarfs were meeting their jewelry fences here. From the outside, this is just another patch of sky on top of a building. It’s a cham pod."

"Cam, camouflage?"

"No, cham, chameleon. This suit is cam, camouflage."

"You do know, I suppose, that chameleons don’t actually change color to suit their surroundings. They change according to mood and temperature."

Holly looked out over Temple Bar. Below them thousands of tourists, musicians, and residents were winding their way through the small artisans’ streets.

"You’d have to tell Foaly about that. He names all this stuff."

"Ah, yes," said Artemis. "Foaly. He is a centaur, is he not?"

"That’s right." Holly turned to face Artemis. "You’re taking this very calmly. Most humans completely freak out when they find out about us. Some go into shock."

Artemis smiled. "I am not most humans."

Holly turned back to the view. She was not going to argue with that statement.

"So tell me, Captain Short. If all I am to the Fairy People is a threat, why did you heal me?"

Holly rested her forehead against the cham pod’s translucent face.

"It’s our nature," she replied. "And of course, I need you to help me to find Opal Koboi. We’ve done it before, we can do it again."

Artemis stood beside her at the window. "So, first you mind-wipe me, and now you need me?"

"Yes, Artemis. Gloat all you like. The mighty LEP need your help."

"Of course, there is the matter of my fee," said Artemis, buttoning his jacket across the bloodstain on his shirt.

Holly rounded on him. "Your fee? Are you serious? After all the Fairy People have done for you? Can’t you just do something good for once in your life?"

"Obviously you elves are an emotional race. Humans are slightly more business-minded. Here are the facts: you are a fugitive from justice, on the run from a murdering pixie genius. You have no funds and few resources. I am the only one who can help you track down this Opal Koboi. I think that’s worth a few bars of anybody’s gold."

Holly glowered at him. "Like you said, Mud Boy. I don’t have any resources."

Artemis spread his hands magnanimously. "I’m prepared to accept your word. If you can guarantee me one metric ton of gold from your hostage fund, I will devise a plan to defeat this Opal Koboi."

Holly was in a hole and she knew it. There was no doubt that Artemis could give her the edge over Opal, but it galled her to pay someone who used to be a friend. "And what if Koboi defeats us?"

"If Koboi defeats and presumably murders us both, then you can consider the debt null and void."

"Great," growled Holly. "It would almost be worth it."

She left the window and began raiding the pod’s medical chest. "You know something, Artemis. You’re exactly how you were when we first met: a greedy Mud Boy who doesn’t care about anyone beside himself. Is that really how you want to be for the rest of your life?"

Artemis’s features remained static, but below the surface his emotions were in turmoil. Of course he was right to ask for a fee. It would be stupid not to. But even asking had made him feel guilty. It was this idiotic newfound conscience. His mother seemed to be able to activate it at will, and this fairy creature could do it too. He would have to keep a tighter check on his emotions.

Holly finished raiding the cabinet. "Well, Mister Consultant, what’s our first move?"

Artemis did not hesitate. "There are only two of us, and we are not very tall. We need reinforcements. As we speak, Butler will be making for Fowl Manor. He may be there already."

Artemis turned on his cell phone and speed dialed Butler. A recorded message told him that the customer he was trying to reach was not available. He declined the offer to try again, instead dialing Fowl Manor. An answering machine cut in after the third ring. Obviously his parents had already left for the spa in Westmeath.

"Butler," said Artemis to the recorder. "You are well, I hope. I myself am fine. Listen very carefully to what I have to tell you, and believe me, every word is true . . ." Artemis proceeded to summarize the day’s events. "We will arrive at the manor shortly. I suggest we stock up on essentials and proceed to a safe house . . ."

Holly tapped him on the shoulder. "We should get out of here. Koboi is no fool. I wouldn’t be surprised if she had some backup plan in case we survived."

Artemis covered the mouthpiece with his palm. "I agree. That is what I would do. This Koboi person is probably on her way right now."

As if on cue, one of the pod walls fizzled and dissolved. Opal Koboi stood in the hole, flanked by Merv and Scant Brill. The pixie twins were armed with transparent plastic handguns. Merv’s gun barrel glowed gently in the aftermath of his wall-melting shot.

"Murderer!" shouted Holly, reaching for her gun. Merv casually put a blast close enough to her head to singe her eyebrows. Holly froze, raising her hands in submission.

"Opal Koboi, I presume?" said Artemis; although, if Holly had not told him the whole story, he never would have guessed that the female before him was anything but a human child. Her black hair was braided down her back, and she wore a checked pinafore of the type worn by a million schoolgirls around the world. Her ears were, of course, rounded.

"Artemis Fowl, how nice to see you again. I do believe that in different circumstances we could have been allies."

"Circumstances change," said Artemis. "Perhaps we can still be allies."

Holly chose to give Artemis the benefit of the doubt. Maybe he was acting like a traitor to save their skins. Maybe.

Opal fluttered her long, curved eyelashes. "Tempting, but no. I feel the world is only large enough for one child genius. And now that I’m pretending to be a child, that genius would be me. Meet Belinda Zito, a girl with big plans."

Holly reached a hand toward her weapon, but stopped when Merv leveled his transparent handgun at her.

"I know you," she said to the Brill brothers. "The Pixie twins. You were on TV."

Scant couldn’t hold back a grin. "Yes, on Canto. It was the season’s highest-rated show. We’re thinking of writing a book, aren’t we, Merv? All about how we . . ."

"Finish each other’s sentences," completed Merv, though he knew it would cost him.

"Shut up, you utter imbecile," snapped Opal, shooting Merv a poisonous glare. "Keep your weapon up and your mouth closed. This is not about you; it is about me. Remember that and I might not have to liquidize the pair of you."

"Yes, of course, Miss Koboi. It’s all about you."

Opal almost purred. "That’s right. It’s always about me. I am the only important one here."

Artemis casually slipped one hand into his pocket. The one holding the cell phone that was still connected to Fowl Manor.

"If I may, Miss Koboi. This delusion of self-importance is common among those recently awakened from comas. It is known as the Narcissus Syndrome. I wrote a paper on this precise subject for the Psychologists Yearbook, under the pseudonym Sir E. Brum. You have spent so much time in your own company, so to speak, that everyone else has become unreal. . . ."

Opal nodded at Merv. "For heaven’s sake, shut him up."

Merv was glad to oblige, sinking a blue power slug into Artemis’s chest. The Irish boy dropped in midlecture.

"What have you done?" shouted Holly, dropping to Artemis’s side. She was relieved to find a steady heartbeat under the bloodied shirt.

"Oh no," said Opal. "Not dead, merely painfully stunned. He is having quite a day, young Artemis."

Holly’s pretty features were distorted by grief and outrage as she glared at the small pixie. "What do you want from us? What else can you do?"

Opal’s face was the picture of innocence. "Don’t blame me. You have brought this on yourself. All I wanted to do was bring down fairy society as we know it, but oh no, you wouldn’t have it. Then I planned a couple of relatively simple assassinations, but you insisted on surviving. Kudos to you for evading the bio-bomb, by the way. I was watching the whole thing from sixty-five feet up in my stealth shuttle. Containing the solinium with an LEP helmet. Good thinking. But now, because you have caused me so much trouble and exasperation, I think I will indulge myself a little."

Holly swallowed the fear that was crawling up her throat. "Indulge yourself?"

"Oh yes. I had a nasty little scenario planned for Foaly—something theatrical involving the Eleven Wonders. But now I have decided that you are worthy of it."

Holly tensed herself. She should go for her gun, there was no other option. But she had to ask; it was fairy nature: "How nasty?"

Opal smiled, and evil was the only word for that expression. "Troll nasty," she said. "And one more thing. I am telling you this because you are about to die, and I want you to hate me at the moment of your death as much as I hate you." Opal paused, allowing the tension to build. "Do you remember the sweet spot on the bomb I strapped to Julius?"

Holly felt as though her heart had expanded to fill her entire chest. "I remember."

Opal’s eyes flared. "Well, there wasn’t one."

Holly went for her gun, and Merv hit her in the chest with a blue charge. She was asleep before she hit the ground.





CHAPTER 6

TROLL NASTY





Under the Atlantic Ocean, Two Miles off the Kerry Coast, Irish Waters

Ten thousand feet below the surface of the Atlantic, an LEP sub-shuttle was speeding through a minor volcanic trench toward the mouth of a subterranean river. The river led to an LEP shuttleport where the subshuttle’s passengers could transfer to a regular craft.

The craft had three passengers and a pilot. The passengers were a dwarf felon and the two Atlantis marshals who were transporting him. Mulch Diggums, the felon in question, was in high spirits for someone in prison clothes. The reason being that his appeal had finally come through, and his lawyer was optimistic that all charges against his client were about to be quashed on a technicality.

Mulch Diggums was a tunnel dwarf who had abandoned the mines in favor of a life of crime. He removed items of value from Mud People’s houses and sold them on the black market. In the past few years his destiny had become intertwined with those of Artemis Fowl and Holly Short, and he had played a key part in their adventures. Inevitably this roller-coaster lifestyle had come crashing down around him as the long arm of the LEP closed in. Before he had been led away to serve the remainder of his sentence, Mulch Diggums was permitted to say good-bye to his human friend.

Artemis had given him two things: one was a note advising him to check the dates on the original search warrant for his cave. The other was a gold medallion to be returned to Artemis in two years. Apparently Artemis wished to resurrect their partnership at that time. Mulch had studied the medallion a thousand times, searching for its secrets, until his constant rubbing wore down the gold plating to reveal a computer disk beneath. Obviously Artemis had recorded a message to himself. A way to return the memories that the LEP had taken from him.

As soon as he had been transported to the Deeps Maximum Security Prison outside Atlantis, Mulch had put in a request for a counsel call. When his state-appointed attorney had grudgingly turned up, Mulch advised him to check the dates on the search warrant leading to his original arrest. Somehow, amazingly, the dates were wrong. According to the LEP computer, Julius Root had searched his cave before obtaining a search warrant. The warrant nullified this and all later arrests. All that remained was a lengthy processing period and one last interview with the arresting officer, and Mulch would be a free dwarf.

Finally, the day had come. Mulch was being shuttled to Police Plaza for his meeting with Julius Root. Fairy law allowed Root one thirty-minute interview to squeeze some kind of confession from Mulch. All the dwarf had to do was stay quiet, and he would be eating vole curry in his favorite dwarf chophouse by dinnertime.

Mulch closed his fist around the medallion. He had no doubt who was pulling the strings here. Somehow, Artemis had hacked the LEP computer and changed his records. The Mud Boy was setting him free.

One of the marshals, a slight elf with Atlantean gills, sucked a slobbery breath through his neck, letting it out through his mouth.

"Hey, Mulch," he wheezed. "What are you going to do when your appeal is turned down? Are you gonna crack up like a little girl? Or are you gonna take it real stoic, like a dwarf should?"

Mulch smiled, exposing his unfeasibly large number of teeth. "Don’t worry about me, fishboy. I’ll be eating one of your cousins by tonight."

Generally the sight of Mulch’s tombstone teeth was enough to freeze any smart-aleck comments, but the Marshal was not used to back talk from an inmate.

"Keep at it with the big mouth, dwarf. I have plenty of rocks for you to chew back in the Deeps."

"In your dreams, fishboy," retorted Mulch, enjoying the banter after months of kowtowing.

The officer rose to his feet. "It’s Vishby, the name is Vishby."

"Yes, fishboy, that’s what I said."

The second officer, a water sprite with batlike wings folded behind his back, chuckled. "Leave him alone, Vishby. Don’t you know who you’re talking to? This here is Mulch Diggums. The most famous thief under the world."

Mulch smiled, though fame is not a good thing when you’re a thief.

"This guy has a whole list of genius moves to his credit."

Mulch’s smile faded as he realized that he was about to be the butt of more jokes.

"Yeah, so, first he steals the Jules Rimet trophy from the humans and tries to sell it to an undercover LEP fairy."

Vishby sat rubbing is hands in glee. "You don’t say? What a brain! How does it fit in that itty-bitty head?"

The sprite strutted along the shuttle’s aisle, delivering his lines like an actor. "So then he lifts some of the Artemis Fowl gold, and lays low in Los Angeles. And do you want to know how he lays low?"

Mulch groaned.

"Tell me," wheezed Vishby, his gills unable to suck in air fast enough.

"He buys hisself a penthouse apartment and starts building a collection of stolen Academy Awards."

Vishby laughed until his gills flapped.

Mulch could take it no longer. He shouldn’t have to put up with this; he was virtually a free fairy, for goodness’ sake. "Hisself? Hisself? I think you’ve spent a bit too long under water. The pressure is squashing your brain."

"My brain is squashed?" said the sprite. "I’m not the one who spent a couple of centuries in prison. I’m not the one wearing manacles and a mouth ring."

It was true. Mulch’s criminal career had not exactly been an unqualified success. He had been caught more than he’d escaped. The LEP was just too technologically advanced to evade. Maybe it was time to go straight, while he still had his looks.

Mulch shook the chains that shackled him to a rail in the holding area. "I won’t be wearing these for long."

Vishby opened his mouth to respond, then paused. A plasma screen was flashing red on a wall panel. Red was urgent. There was an important message coming through. Vishby hooked an earphone over his ear and turned the screen away from Mulch. As the message was delivered, his face lost every trace of levity. Several moments later, he tossed the headphones on the console.

"It looks like you’ll be wearing those chains for a bit longer than you thought."

Mulch’s jaw strained against the steel mouth ring. "Why? What’s happened?"

Vishby scratched a strip of gill rot on his neck. "I shouldn’t tell you this, convict, but Commander Root has been murdered."

Mulch couldn’t have been more shocked if they had connected him to the underworld grid.

"Murdered? How?"

"Explosion," said Vishby. "Another LEP officer is the prime suspect. Captain Holly Short. She’s missing, presumed dead on the surface, but that hasn’t been confirmed."

"I’m not a bit surprised," said the water sprite. "Females are too temperamental for police work. They couldn’t even handle a simple transport job like this."

Mulch was in shock. He felt as though his brain had snapped its moorings and was spinning in his head. Holly murdered Julius? How could that be possible? It wasn’t possible, simple as that. There must be a mistake. And now Holly was missing, presumed dead. How could this be happening?

"Anyways," continued Vishby. "We gotta turn this crate around and head back to Atlantis. Obviously your little hearing is being postponed indefinitely, until this entire mess gets sorted out."

The water sprite slapped Mulch playfully on the cheek. "Tough break, dwarf. Maybe they’ll get the red tape untangled in a couple of years."

Mulch barely felt the slap, though the words penetrated. A couple of years. Could he take a couple of years in the Deeps? Already his soul cried out for the tunnels. He needed to feel soft earth between his fingers. His insides needed real roughage to clear them out. And of course, there was a chance that Holly was still alive and needed help. A friend. He had no option but to escape.

Julius dead. It couldn’t be true.

Mulch mentally leafed through his dwarf abilities to select the best tool for this escape. He had long since forfeited his magic by breaking most of the Fairy Book’s commandments, but dwarfs had extraordinary gifts granted them by evolution. Some of these were common knowledge among the People, but dwarfs were a notoriously secretive race who believed that their survival depended on concealing these talents. It was well known that dwarfs excavated tunnels by ingesting the earth through their unhinged jaws, then ejecting the recycled dirt and air through the other end. Most fairies were aware that dwarfs could drink through their pores, and if they stopped drinking for a while, then these pores were transformed into minisuction cups. Fewer People knew that dwarf spit was luminous, and hardened when layered. And no one knew that a by-product of dwarf flatulence was a methane-producing bacterium called Methanobrevibacter smithii, which prevented decompression sickness in deep-sea divers. In fairness, dwarfs didn’t know this either; all they knew was that on the rare occasion they found themselves accidentally burrowing into the open sea, the bends did not seem to affect them.

Mulch thought about it for a moment and realized that there was a way to combine all of his talents and get out of here. He had to put his on-the-hoof plan into effect immediately, before they went into the deep Atlantic trenches. Once the subshuttle went too deep, he would never make it.

The craft swung in a long arc until it was heading back the way it had come. The pilot would punch the engines as soon as they were outside Irish fishing waters. Mulch began to lick his palms, smoothing the spittle through his halo of wild hair.

Vishby laughed. "What are you doing, Diggums? Cleaning up for your cell mate?"

Mulch would have dearly loved to unhinge his jaw and take a bite out of Vishby, but the mouth ring prevented him from opening his mouth far enough to unhinge. He had to content himself with an insult.

"I may be a prisoner, fishboy, but in ten years I’ll be free. You, on the other hand, will be an ugly bottom-feeder for the rest of your life."

Vishby scratched his gill rot furiously. "You just bought yourself six weeks in solitary, mister."

Mulch slathered his fingers with spittle and spread it around the crown of his head, reaching as far back as the manacles would allow. He could feel his hair hardening, clamping onto his head like a helmet. Exactly like a helmet. As he licked, Mulch drew great breaths of air through his nose, storing the air in his intestines. Each breath sucked air out of the pressurized space faster than the pumps could push it back in.

The marshals did not notice this unusual behavior, and even if they had, the pair would doubtless have put it down to nerves. Deep breathing and grooming. Classic nervous traits. Who could blame Mulch for being nervous; after all, he was heading back to the very place criminals had nightmares about.

Mulch licked and breathed, his chest blowing up like a bellows. He felt the pressure fluttering down below, anxious to be released.

Hold on, he told himself. You will need every bubble of that air.

The shell on his head crackled audibly now, and if the lights had been dimmed, it would have glowed brightly. The air was growing thin, and Vishby’s gills noticed, even if he didn’t. They rippled and flapped, boosting their oxygen intake. Mulch sucked again, a huge gulp of air. A bow plate clanged as the pressure grew.

The sea sprite noticed the change first. "Hey, fishboy."

Vishby’s pained expression spoke of years enduring this nickname. "How many times do I have to tell you?"

"Okay, Vishby, keep your scales on. Is it getting hard to breathe in here? I can’t keep my wings up."

Vishby touched his gills; they were flapping like bunting in the wind. "Wow. My gills are going crazy. What’s happening here?" He pressed the cabin intercom panel. "Everything all right? Maybe we could boost the air pumps."

The voice that came back was calm and professional, but with an unmistakably anxious undertone. "We’re losing pressure in the holding area. I’m trying to nail down the leak now."

"Leak?" squeaked Vishby. "If we depressurize at this depth, the shuttle will crumple like a paper cup."

Mulch took another huge breath.

"Get everyone into the cockpit," the voice declared. "Come through the air lock, right now."

"I don’t know," said Vishby. "We’re not supposed to untie the prisoner. He’s a slippery one."

The slippery one took another breath. And this time a stern plate actually buckled with a crack like thunder.

"Okay, okay. We’re coming."

Mulch held out his hands. "Hurry up, fishboy. We don’t all have gills."

Vishby swiped his security card along the magnetic strip on Mulch’s manacles. The manacles popped open. Mulch was free. As free as you can be in a prison sub with ten thousand crushing feet of water overhead. He stood, taking one last gulp of air.

Vishby noticed the act. "Hey, convict, what are you doing?" he asked. "Are you sucking in all the air?"

Mulch burped. "Who, me? That’s ridiculous."

The sprite was equally suspicious. "He’s up to something. Look, his hair is all shiny. I bet this is one of those secret dwarf arts."

Mulch tried to look skeptical. "What? Air-sucking and shiny hair? I’m not surprised we kept it a secret."

Vishby squinted at him. His eyes were red rimmed, and his speech was slurred from oxygen deprivation. "You’re up to something. Put out your hands."

Being shackled again was not part of the plan. Mulch feigned weakness. "I can’t breathe," he said, leaning against the wall. "I hope I don’t die in your custody."

This statement caused enough distraction for Mulch to heave one more mighty breath. The stern plate creased inwardly and a silver stress line cracked through the paint. Red pressure lights flared on all over the compartment.

The pilot’s voice blared through the speaker. "Get in here!" he shouted, all traces of composure gone. "She’s gonna fold."

Vishby grabbed Mulch by the lapels. "What did you do, dwarf?"

Mulch sank to his knees, flicking open the bum-flap at the rear of his prison overalls. He gathered his legs beneath him, ready to move.

"Listen, Vishby," he said. "You’re a moron, but not a bad guy, so do like the pilot says and get in there."

Vishby’s gills flapped weakly, searching for air. "You’ll be killed, Diggums."

Mulch winked at him. "I’ve been dead before."

Mulch could hold on to the gas no longer. His digestive tract was stretched like a magician’s animal balloon. He folded his arms across his chest, aimed the coated tip of his head at the weakened plate, and let the gas loose.

The resultant emission shook the subshuttle to its very rivets, sending Mulch rocketing across the hold. He slammed into the stern plate, smack in the center of the fault line, punching straight through. His speed popped him through into the ocean perhaps half a second before the sudden change in pressure flooded the sub’s chamber. Half a second later, the rear chamber was crushed like a ball of used tinfoil. Vishby and his partner had escaped to the pilot’s cockpit just in time.

Mulch sped toward the surface, a stream of released gas bubbles clipping him along at a rate of several knots. His dwarf lungs fed on the trapped air in his digestive tract, and the luminous helmet of spittle sent out a corona of greenish light to illuminate his way.

Of course they came after him. Vishby and the water sprite were both amphibious Atlantean dwellers. As soon as they jettisoned the wreckage of the rear compartment, the marshals cleared the air lock, finning after their fugitive. But they never had a prayer: Mulch was gas powered, they merely had wings and fins. Whatever pursuit equipment they’d had was at the bottom of the ocean, along with the rear compartment, and the cockpit’s backup engines could barely outrun a crab.

The Atlantis marshals could only watch as their captive jetted toward the surface, mocking them with every bubble from his behind.

Butler’s cell phone had been reduced to so much plastic chips and wiring by the jump from the hotel window. This meant that Artemis could not call him if he needed immediate assistance. The bodyguard double-parked the Hummer outside the first Phonetix store he saw, and purchased a tri-band phone and car kit. Butler activated the phone on the way to the airport and punched in Artemis’s number. No good. The phone was switched off. Butler hung up and tried Fowl Manor. Nobody home and no messages.

Butler breathed deeply, stayed calm, and floored the accelerator. The drive to the airport took less than ten minutes. The giant bodyguard did not waste time returning the Hummer to the rental agency car park, preferring to abandon it in the passenger drop-off area. It would be towed, and he would be fined, but he didn’t have time to worry about it now.

The next plane to Ireland was fully booked, so Butler paid a Polish businessman two thousand euro for his first-class ticket, and in forty-five minutes he was on the Aer Lingus shuttle to Dublin airport. He kept trying Artemis’s number until they started the engines, and switched his phone on again as soon as the wheels touched down.

It was dark by the time he left the Arrivals terminal. Less than half a day had passed since they had broken into the safe-deposit box in Munich’s International Bank. It was incredible that so much could happen in such a short time. Still, when you worked for Artemis Fowl II, the incredible was almost a daily occurrence. Butler had been with Artemis since the day of his birth, just over fourteen years ago, and in that time he had had been dragged into more fantastic situations than the average presidential bodyguard.

The Fowl Bentley was parked in the prestige level of the short-stay car park. Butler slotted his new phone into the car kit and tried Artemis again. No luck. But when he remote-accessed the mailbox at Fowl Manor there was one message. From Artemis. Butler’s grip tightened on the leather steering wheel. Alive. The boy was alive at least.

The message started well enough, then took a decidedly strange turn. Artemis claimed to be unhurt, but perhaps was suffering from a concussion or post-traumatic stress, because Butler’s young charge also claimed that fairies were responsible for the strange missile. A pixie, to be precise. And now he was in the company of an elf, which was apparently a completely different animal to a pixie. Not only that, but the elf was an old friend named Holly, whom they had forgotten. And the pixie was an old enemy who they couldn’t remember. It was all very strange. Butler could only conclude that Artemis was trying to tell him something, and that hidden inside this crazed meandering was a message. He would have to analyze the tape as soon as he returned to Fowl Manor.

Then the recording became an unfolding drama. More players entered the range of the Artemis’s microphone. The alleged pixie, Opal, and her bodyguards joined the group. Threats were exchanged and Artemis tried to talk his way out. It didn’t work. If Artemis had a fault it was that he tended to be very patronizing, even in crisis situations. The pixie, Opal, or whoever it really was, certainly didn’t take kindly to being spoken down to. It appeared that she considered herself every inch Artemis’s equal, if not his superior. She ordered Artemis silenced in midlecture, and her command was obeyed instantly. Butler experienced a moment of dread, until the pixie stated that Artemis was not dead, merely stunned.

Artemis’s new ally had been similarly stunned, but not before she learned of the pixie’s theatrical plan. Something to do with the Eleven Wonders, and trolls.

"You cannot be serious," muttered Butler, pulling off the motorway at the exit for Fowl Manor.

To the average passerby it would seem as though several rooms in the manor at the end of the avenue were occupied, but Butler knew that the bulbs in these rooms were all on timers, and would alternate at irregular intervals. There was even a stereo system wired to each room that would pump talk radio into various areas of the house. All measures designed to put off the casual burglar. None of which, Butler knew, would put off a professional thief.

The bodyguard opened the electronic gates and sped up the pebbled driveway. He parked the car directly in front of the main door, not bothering to place it in the shelter of the double garage. He pulled his handgun and clip holster from a magnetic strip under the driver’s seat. It was possible that the kidnappers could have sent a representative. He could already be inside the manor.

Butler knew as soon as he opened the front door that something was wrong. The alarm’s thirty-second warning should have begun its countdown immediately, but it did not. This was because the entire box was encased in some shiny crackling fiberglass-like substance. Butler poked it gingerly. The stuff glowed and seemed almost organic.

Butler proceeded along the lobby, sticking to the walls. He glanced toward the ceilings. Green lights winked in the shadows. At least the cctv cameras were still working. Even if the manor’s visitors had left, he could get a look at them on the security tapes.

The bodyguard’s foot brushed against something. He glanced down. A large crystal bowl lay on the rug, the remains of a sherry trifle slopping in its base. Beside it lay a wad of gravy-encrusted tinfoil. A hungry kidnapper? Five feet on he found an empty Moet champagne bottle and a decimated chicken carcass. Just how many intruders had been here?

The remnants of food formed a trail that led toward the study. Butler followed it upstairs, stepping over a half-eaten T-bone steak, two chunks of fruitcake, and a Pavlova shell. A light shone from the study doorway, casting a small shadow into the hall. There was someone in the study. A not very tall someone. Artemis?

Butler’s spirits rose for a second when he heard his employer’s voice, but they sank just as quickly. He recognized those words; he had listened to them himself in the car. The intruder was playing the taped message on the answering machine.

Butler crept into the study, stepping so lightly that his footfalls would not have alerted a deer. Even from the back, this intruder was a strange fellow. He was barely three feet tall, with a stocky torso and thick muscled limbs. His entire body appeared to be covered with wild wiry hair that seemed to move independently. His head was encased in a helmet of the same glowing substance that had incapacitated the alarm box. The intruder wore a blue jumpsuit with a flap in the seat. The flap was half unbuttoned, giving Butler a view of a hairy rear end that seemed unsettlingly familiar.

The taped message was coming to an end.

Artemis’s abductor was describing what was in store for the Irish boy. "Oh yes," she said. "I had a nasty little scenario planned for Foaly—something theatrical involving the Eleven Wonders. But now I have decided that you are worthy of it."

"How nasty?" asked Artemis’s new ally, Holly.

"Troll nasty," responded Opal.

The Fowl Manor intruder made a loud sucking noise, then discarded the remains of an entire rack of lamb.

"Not good," he said. "This is really bad."

Butler cocked his weapon, aiming it squarely at the intruder.

"It’s about to get worse," he said.

Butler sat the intruder in one of the study’s leather armchairs, then pulled a second chair around to face him. From the front, this little creature looked even stranger. His face was basically a mass of wirelike hair with eyes and teeth. The eyes occasionally glowed red like a fox’s, and the teeth looked like two rows of picket fencing. This was no hairy child: this was an adult creature of some sort.

"Don’t tell me," sighed Butler. "You’re an elf."

The creature sat up straight. "How dare you," he cried. "I am a dwarf, as you very well know."

Butler thought back to Artemis’s confusing message. "Let me guess. I used to know you, but somehow I forgot. Oh yes, the fairy police wiped my mind."

Mulch burped. "Correct, you’re not as slow as you look."

Butler raised the gun. "This is still cocked, so less of the lip, little man."

"Pardon me, I didn’t realize we were enemies now."

Butler leaned forward in his chair. "We were friends?"

Mulch thought about it. "Not at first, no. But I think you grew to love me for my charm and noble character."

Butler sniffed. "And personal hygiene?"

"That’s not fair," objected Mulch. "Do you have any idea what I had to do to get here? I escaped from a sub-shuttle and swam a couple of miles in freezing cold water. Then I had to break into a blacksmith’s in the west of Ireland, about the only place they still have blacksmiths, and snip off my mouth ring. Don’t ask. Then I burrowed across the entire country to find out the truth about this affair. And when I get here one of the few Mud Men I don’t feel like taking a bite out of is pointing a gun at me."

"Hold on a minute," said Butler. "I need to get a tissue to wipe my eyes."

"You don’t believe any of this, do you?"

"Do I believe in fairy police and pixie conspiracies and tunneling dwarfs? No, I don’t."

Mulch slowly reached inside his jumpsuit and pulled out the gold-plated computer disk. "Maybe this will open your mind."

Butler turned on one of Artemis’s Powerbooks, making sure the laptop was not connected to any other computer by wire or infrared. If this disk did contain a virus, then they would only lose one hard drive. He cleaned the disk off with a spray and cloth and slid it into the multidrive.

The computer asked for a password.

"This disk is locked," said Butler. "What’s the password?"

Mulch shrugged, a French baguette in each hand. "Hey, I don’t know. It’s Artemis’s disk."

Butler frowned. If this really was Artemis’s disk, then Artemis’s password would open it. He typed in three words, Aurum est potestas: Gold is power. The family motto. Seconds later the locked disk icon was replaced by a window containing two folders. One was labeled Artemis, the other Butler. Before the bodyguard opened either, he ran a virus check, just in case. The check came up clean.

Feeling strangely nervous, Butler opened the folder with his name on it. There were more than a hundred files on it. Mostly text files, but some video, too. The largest file was labeled view me first. Butler double-clicked that file.

A small QuickTime player opened on the screen. In the picture, Artemis was seated at the very desk that the laptop rested on. Bizarre. Butler clicked the PLAY triangle.

"Hello, Butler," said Artemis’s voice, or a very sophisticated fake. "If you are watching this, then our good friend Mister Diggums has come through."

"You hear that?" spat Mulch through a mouthful of bread. "Good friend Mister Diggums."

"Quiet!"

"Everything you think you know about this planet is about to change," continued Artemis. "Humans are not the only sentient beings on Earth, in fact we are not even the most technologically advanced. Below the surface are several species of fairy. Most are possibly primates, but I have not had the opportunity to conduct medical examinations as of yet."

Butler could not hide his impatience. "Please, Artemis. Get to the point."

"But more of that at another time," said Artemis, as if he had heard. "There is a possibility that you are watching this at a time of peril, so I must arm you with all the knowledge that we have gathered during our adventures with the Lower Elements Police."

Lower Elements Police? thought Butler. This is all a fake. Somehow it’s fake.

Again, the video-Artemis seemed to read his thoughts. "In order to verify the fantastical facts that I am about to reveal, I will say one word. Just one. A word that I could not possibly know unless you had told me. Something you said as you lay dying, before Holly Short cured you with her magic. What would you tell me if you lay dying, old friend. What would be the single word you would say?"

I would tell you my first name, thought Butler. Something only two other people in the world know. Something completely forbidden by bodyguard etiquette, unless it is too late to matter.

Artemis leaned in to the camera. "Your name, my old friend, is Domovoi."

Butler was reeling. Oh my God, he thought. It’s true, it’s all true.

Something began to happen in his brain. Disjointed images flashed through his subconscious, releasing repressed memories. The false past was swept away by blinding truth. An electric connect-the-dots jolted through his cranium, making everything clear. It all made sense now. He felt old because the healing had aged him. He found it difficult to breath sometimes because Kevlar strands had been woven into the skin over his chest wound. He remembered Holly’s kidnapping, and the B’wa Kell goblin revolution. He remembered Holly and Julius, the centaur Foaly, and of course, Mulch Diggums. There was no need to read the other files; one word had been enough. He remembered everything.

Butler studied the dwarf with fresh eyes. Everything was so familiar now. The vibrating frizz of hair, the bowlegged stance, the smell. He sprang from his chair and strode across the room to Mulch, who was busy raiding the study’s minifridge.

"Mulch, you old reprobate. Good to see you."

"Now he remembers," said the dwarf without turning around. "Do you have anything to say?"

Butler glanced at the open bum-flap. "Yes. Don’t point that thing at me. I’ve seen the damage it can do."

The bodyguard’s smile froze on his face as he remembered one detail of Artemis’s phone message.

"Julius Root. I heard something about a bomb."

Mulch turned from the fridge, his beard laced with a cocktail of dairy products.

"Yes. Julius is gone. I can’t believe it. He’s been chasing me for so many years."

Butler felt a terrific weariness weigh on his shoulders. He had lost too many comrades over the years.

"And what’s more," continued Mulch. "Holly is accused of murdering him."

"That’s just not possible. We have to find them."

"Now you’re talking," said the dwarf, slamming the fridge door. "Do you have a plan?"

"Yes. Find Holly and Artemis."

Mulch rolled his eyes. "Pure genius. It’s a wonder you need Artemis at all."

Now that the dwarf had eaten his fill, the two reacquainted friends sat at the conference table and brought each other up to speed.

Butler cleaned his gun as he spoke. He often did this in times of stress. It was a comfort thing.

"So, Opal Koboi somehow gets out of prison and hatches this complicated plot to revenge herself on everyone who put her in there. Not only that, but she sets Holly up to take the blame."

"Remind you of anyone?" asked the dwarf.

Butler polished the Sig Sauer’s slide. "Artemis may be a criminal, but he is not evil."

"Who said anything about Artemis?"

"Well what about you, Mulch? Why didn’t Opal try to kill you?"

"Ah well," sighed the dwarf, ever the martyr. "The LEP didn’t advertise my involvement. It wouldn’t do to have the proud officers of our police force tarnished by association with a known criminal."

Butler nodded. "It makes sense. So you’re safe for now and Artemis and Holly are alive. But Opal has something planned for them. Something to do with trolls and the Eleven Wonders. Any ideas?"

"We both know about trolls, right?"

Butler nodded again. He had fought a troll not so long ago. Without a doubt the toughest battle he had ever been involved in. He couldn’t believe the LEP had managed to wipe it from his mind.

"But what about the Eleven Wonders?"

"The Eleven Wonders is a theme park in Haven’s old-town district. Fairies are obsessed with Mud Men, so one bright spark billionaire thought it would be a great idea to build smaller models of the human wonders of the world and put them all in one place. It did okay for a few years, but I think looking at those buildings made the People remember just how much they missed the surface."

Butler ran through a list in his head. "But there are only seven wonders in the world."

"There used to be eleven," said Mulch. "Trust me, I have photographs. Anyway, the park is closed down now. That whole area of the city has been abandoned for years; the tunnels are not safe. And the whole place is overrun by trolls." He stopped suddenly, the horror of what he had just said hitting home. "Oh gods. Trolls."

Butler began to quickly reassemble his weapon. "We need to get down there right now."

"Impossible," said Mulch. "I can’t even begin to think how."

Butler dragged the dwarf to his feet and propelled him toward the door. "Maybe not. But you know someone.

People in your business always know someone."

Mulch ground his teeth thinking about it. "You know, there is someone. A sprite who owes Holly his life. But whatever I persuade him to do for us won’t be legal."

Butler grabbed a bag of weaponry from a cabinet. "Good," he said. "Illegal is always faster."





CHAPTER 7

THE TEMPLE OF ARTEMIS





The Lower Elements

Opal Koboi’s shuttle was a concept model that had never gone into mass production. It was years ahead of anything on the market, but its skin of stealth ore and cam-foil made the cost of such a vehicle so exorbitant that even Opal Koboi couldn’t have afforded one without the government grants that had helped to pay for it.

Scant secured the prisoners into the passenger bay, while Merv piloted them across to Scotland, then underground through a mountain river in the highlands. Opal busied herself making sure that her other plan, the one involving world domination, was proceeding smoothly.

She closed the screen on her video phone and dialed a connection to Sicily.

The person at the other end picked up in the middle of the first ring. "Belinda, my dear. Is it you?"

The man who had answered was in his late forties, with Latin good looks and gray-streaked black hair framing his tanned face. He wore a white lab coat over an open-necked striped Versace shirt.

"Yes, Papa. It’s me. Don’t worry, I am safe."

Opal’s voice was layered with the hypnotic mesmer. The poor human was utterly in her power, as he had been for over a month.

"When are you coming home, my dear? I miss you."

"Today, Papa, in a few hours. How is everything there?"

The man smiled dreamily. "Molto bene. Wonderful. The weather is fine. We can take a drive to the mountains. Perhaps I can teach you to ski."

Opal frowned impatiently. "Listen to me, idiota . . . Papa. How is everything with the probe? Are we on schedule?"

For a moment, a flash of annoyance wrinkled the Italian’s brow, then he was bewitched again. "Yes, my dear. Everything is on schedule. The explosive pods are being buried today. The probe’s systems’ check was a resounding success."

Opal clapped her hands, the picture of a delighted daughter. "Excellent, Papa. You are so good to your little Belinda. I will be with you soon."

"Hurry home, my dear," said the man, utterly lost without the creature he believed to be his daughter.

Opal ended the call. "Fool," she said contemptuously. But Giovanni Zito would be allowed to live at least until the probe he was constructing to her specifications punctured the Lower Elements. Now that she had spoken to Zito, Opal was eager to concentrate on the probe portion of her plan. Revenge was certainly sweet, but it was also a distraction. Perhaps she should just dump these two from the shuttle and let the earth’s magma core have them.

"Merv," she barked. "How long to the theme park?"

Merv checked the instruments on the shuttle’s dashboard.

"We’ve just entered the main chute network, Miss Koboi. Five hours," he called over his shoulder. "Perhaps less."

Five hours, mused Opal, curling in her bucket seat like a contented cat. She could spare five hours.

Some time later, Artemis and Holly were stirring in their seats. Scant helped them into consciousness with a couple of jolts from a buzz baton.

"Welcome back to the land of the condemned," said Opal. "How do you like my shuttle?"

The craft was impressive, even if it was ferrying Artemis and Holly to their deaths. The seats were covered with illegally harvested fur, and the décor was plusher than your average palace. There were small entertainment hologram cubes suspended from the ceiling, in case the passengers wanted to watch a movie.

Holly began to squirm when she noticed what she was sitting on. "Fur! You animal."

"No," said Opal. "You’re sitting on the animals. As I told you, I am human now. And that is what humans do, skin animals for their own comfort. Isn’t that right, Master Fowl?"

"Some do," said Artemis coolly. "Not me personally."

"Really, Artemis," said Opal archly. "I hardly think that qualifies you for sainthood. From what I hear, you’re just as eager to exploit the People as I am."

"Perhaps. I don’t remember."

Opal rose from her seat and fixed herself a light salad from the buffet. "Of course, they mind-wiped you. But surely you must remember now? Not even your subconscious could deny that this is happening."

Artemis concentrated. He could remember something. Vague out of focus images. Nothing very specific. "I do remember something."

Opal lifted her eyes from her plate. "Yes?"

Artemis fixed her with a cool stare. "I remember how Foaly defeated you before with superior intellect. I am certain he will do it again."

Of course, Artemis had not truly remembered this; he was simply repeating what Holly had told him. But the statement had the desired effect.

"That ridiculous centaur!" shrieked Opal, hurling her plate against the wall. "He was lucky, and I was hampered by that idiot Cudgeon. Not this time. This time I am the architect of my own fate. And of yours."

"And what is it this time?" Artemis asked mockingly. "Another orchestrated rebellion? Or perhaps a mechanical dinosaur?"

Opal’s face grew white with rage. "Is there no end to your impudence, Mud Boy? No small-scale rebellions this time. I have a grander vision. I will lead the humans to the People. When the two worlds collide, there will be a war and my adopted people will win."

"You’re a fairy, Koboi," interjected Holly. "One of us. Rounded ears don’t change that. Don’t you think the humans will notice when you don’t get any taller?"

Opal patted Holly’s cheek almost affectionately. "My poor, dear, underpaid police officer. Don’t you think I thought of all this while I stewed in that coma for almost a year? Don’t you think I thought of everything? I have always known humans would discover us eventually, so I have prepared." Opal leaned over, parting her jet-black hair to reveal a magically fading three-inch scar on her scalp. "Getting my ears rounded wasn’t the only surgery I had done. I also had something inserted in my skull."

"A pituitary gland," guessed Artemis.

"Very good, Mud Boy. A rather tiny artificial human pituitary gland. HGH is one of seven hormones secreted by the pituitary."

"HGH?" interrupted Holly.

"Human growth hormone," explained Artemis.

"Exactly. As the name implies, HGH enhances the growth of various organs and tissues, especially muscle and bone. In three months, I have already grown half an inch. Oh, maybe I’ll never make the basketball team, but no one will ever believe that I am a fairy."

"You’re no fairy," said Holly bitterly. "At heart you’ve always been human."

"That’s supposed to be an insult, I suppose. Maybe I deserve that, considering what I am about to do to you. In an hour’s time, there won’t be enough of you two remaining to fill the booty box."

This was a term that Artemis had not heard before. "Booty box? That sounds like a pirate expression."

Opal opened a secret panel in the flooring, revealing a small compartment underneath. "This is a booty box. The term was coined by vegetable smugglers more than eight thousand years ago. A secret compartment that would go unnoticed by customs officials. Of course, these days, with X-ray, infrared, and motion-sensitive cameras, a booty box isn’t much good." Opal smiled slyly, like a child who has put one over on her teacher. "Unless of course the box is completely constructed from stealth ore, refrigerated, and has internal projectors to fool X-ray and infrared. The only way to detect this booty box is to put your foot into it. So, even if the LEP did board my shuttle, they would not find whatever it is I am choosing to smuggle. Which in this case is a jar of chocolate truffles. Hardly illegal, but the cooler is full. Chocolate truffles are my passion, you know. All that time I was away, truffles were one of two things I craved. The other was revenge."

Artemis yawned. "How fascinating. A secret compartment. What a genius you are. How can you fail to take over the world with a booty box full of truffles?"

Opal smoothed Artemis’s hair back from his forehead. "Make all the jokes you want, Mud Boy. Words are all you have now."

Minutes later, Merv brought the stealth shuttle in to land. Artemis and Holly were cuffed and led down the retractable gangplank. They emerged into a giant tunnel dimly illuminated by Glo-Strips. Most of the lighting panels were shattered, the rest were on their last legs. This section of the chute had once been part of a thriving metropolis, but now was completely deserted and derelict. Demolition notices were pasted across various drooping billboards.

Opal pointed to one. "This whole place is being torn down in a month. We just made the deadline."

"Lucky us," muttered Holly.

Merv and Scant prodded them wordlessly along the chute with their gun barrels. The road surface beneath their feet was buckled and cracked. Swear toads clustered in damp patches, spouting obscenities. The roadside was lined with abandoned concession stands and souvenir shops. In one window, human dolls were arranged in various warlike poses.

Artemis stopped in spite of the gun at his back. "Is that how you see us?" he asked.

"Oh, no," said Opal. "You’re much worse than that, but the manufacturers don’t want to scare the children."

Several huge hemispherical structures squatted at the end of the tunnel. Each one the size of a football stadium. They were constructed of hexagonal panels welded together along the seams. Some panels were opaque, others were transparent. Each panel was roughly the dimensions of a small house.

Before the hemispheres was a huge arch, with strips of tattered gold leaf hanging from its frame. A sign hung from the arch, emblazoned with six-foot-high Gnommish letters.

"The Eleven Wonders of the Human World," declared Opal theatrically. "Ten thousand years of civilization, and you only manage to produce eleven so-called wonders."

Artemis tested his cuffs. They were tightly fastened. "You know of course that there are only seven wonders on the official list."

"I know that," said Opal testily. "But humans are so narrow-minded. Fairy scholars studied video footage and decided to include the Abu Simbel Temple in Egypt, the Moai Statues in Rapa Nui, the Borobudur Temple in Indonesia, and the Throne Hall of Persepolis in Iran."

"If humans are so narrow-minded," commented Holly. "I’m surprised that you want to be one of them."

Opal passed through the arch. "Well, I would prefer to be a pixie, no offense Artemis, but the Fairy People are shortly to be wiped out. I shall be seeing to that personally as soon as I have dropped you off in your new home. In ten minutes I’ll be on my way to the island, watching you two get torn apart on the shuttle monitors."

They proceeded through the theme park, past the first hemisphere, which contained a two-thirds scale model of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Several of the hexagonal panels had been ripped out and Artemis could see the remains of the model through the gaps. It was an impressive sight, made even more so by the scores of shaggy creatures scrambling across the pyramid’s slopes.

"Trolls," explained Opal. "They have taken over the exhibits. But don’t worry, they are extremely territorial and won’t attack unless you approach the pyramid."

Artemis was beyond amazement at this point, but even so, the sight of these magnificent carnivores preying on one another was enough to speed his heart up a few beats. He paused to study the nearest specimen. It was a terrifying creature: at least eight feet tall, with grimy dreadlocks swinging about its massive head. The troll’s fur-matted arms swung below its knees, and two curved serrated tusks jutted from its lower jaw. The beast watched them pass, night eyes glowing red in their sockets.

The group arrived at the second exhibit. The Temple of Artemis at Ephesus. The hologram by the entrance displayed a revolving image of the Turkish building.

Opal read the history panel. "Interesting," she said. "Now, why do you suppose someone would name a male child after a female goddess?"

"It’s my father’s name," said Artemis wearily, having explained this a hundred times. "It can be used for girls or boys, and means the hunter. Rather apt, don’t you think? It may interest you to know that your chosen human name, Belinda, means beautiful snake. Also rather fitting. Half of it, at any rate."

Opal pointed a tiny finger at Artemis’s nose. "You are a very annoying creature, Fowl. I do hope all humans are not like you."

She nodded at Scant.

"Spray them," she ordered.

Scant took a small atomizer from his pocket and doused Holly and Artemis liberally with the contents. The liquid was yellow and foul smelling.

"Troll pheromones," said Scant, almost apologetically. "These trolls will take one whiff of you and go absolutely crazy. To them you smell like females in heat. When they find out you’re not, they’ll tear you into a thousand little bits, then chew on the pieces. We’ve had all of the broken panels repaired, so there’s no escape. You can jump in the river if you like; the scent should wash off in about a thousand years. And, Captain Short, I have removed the wings from your suit and shorted out the cam-foil. I did leave the heating coils. After all, one deserves a sporting chance."

A lot of use heating coils will be against trolls, thought Holly glumly.

Merv was checking the entrance through one of the transparent panels. "Okay. We’re clear."

The pixie opened the main entrance by remote. Distant howls resonated from inside the exhibit. Artemis could see several trolls brawling on the steps of the replica temple. He and Holly would be torn apart.

The Brill brothers propelled them into the hemisphere.

"Best of luck," said Opal, as the door slid shut. "Remember, you’re not alone. We’ll be watching you on the cameras."

The door clanged shut ominously. Seconds later the electronic locking panel began to fizzle, as one of the Brill brothers melted it from the outside. Artemis and Holly were locked in with a bunch of amorous trolls and smelled irresistible to them.

The Temple of Artemis exhibit was a scale model that had been constructed with painstaking accuracy, complete with animatronic humans going about their daily business as they would have been in 400 B.C. Most of the human models had been stripped to the wires by the trolls, but some moved jerkily along their tracks, bringing their gifts to the goddess. Any robot whose path brought them too close to a pack of trolls was pounced on and torn to shreds. It was a grim preview of Artemis and Holly’s own fate.

There was only one food supply. The trolls themselves. Cubs and stragglers were picked off by the bulls and butchered with teeth, claws, and tusks. The pack leader took the lion’s share, then tossed the carcass to the baying pack. If the trolls were confined here much longer, they would wipe themselves out.

Holly shouldered Artemis roughly to the ground. "Quickly," she said. "Roll in the mud. Cover yourself, smother the scent."

Artemis did as he was told, scooping mud over himself with his manacled hands. Any spots he missed were quickly slathered by Holly. He did the same for her. In moments the pair were almost unrecognizable.

Artemis was feeling something he could not remember having felt before: absolute fear. His hands shook, rattling the chains. There was no room in his brain for analytical thought. I can’t, he thought. I can’t do anything.

Holly took charge, dragging him to his feet and propelling him to a cluster of fake merchants’ tents beside a fast-flowing river. They crouched behind the ragged canvas, peering at the trolls through long claw rents in the material. Two animatronic merchants sat on mats before the tents, their baskets brimming with gold and ivory statuettes of the goddess Artemis. Neither model had a head. One of the heads lay in the dust several feet away, its artificial brain poking out through a bite hole.

"We need to get the cuffs off," said Holly urgently.

"What?" mumbled Artemis.

Holly shook her manacles in his face. "We need to get these off now! The mud will protect us for a minute, then the trolls will be on our trail. We have to get in the water, and with cuffs on we’ll drown in the current."

Artemis’s eyes had lost their focus. "The current?"

"Snap out of it, Artemis," Holly hissed into his face. "Remember your gold? You can’t collect it if you’re dead. The great Artemis Fowl, collapsing at the first sign of trouble. We’ve been in worse scrapes than this before." Not exactly true, but the Mud Boy couldn’t remember, could he?

Artemis composed himself. There was no time for a calming meditation; he would simply have to repress the emotions he was experiencing. Very unhealthy, psychologically speaking, but better than being reduced to chunks of meat between a troll’s teeth.

He studied the cuffs. Some form of ultralight plastic polymer. There was a digit pad in the center, positioned so the wearer could not reach the digits.

"How many numbers?" he said.

"What?"

"In the code for the cuffs. You are a police officer. Surely you know how many numbers in the code for handcuffs."

"Three," replied Holly. "But there are so many possibilities."

"Possibilities but not probabilities," said Artemis, irritating even when his life was in danger. "Statistically, thirty-eight percent of humans don’t bother changing the factory code on digital locks. We can only hope that fairies are equally negligent."

Holly frowned. "Opal is anything but negligent."

"Perhaps. But her two little henchfairies might not be as attentive to detail."

Artemis held out his cuffs to Holly. "Try three zeroes."

Holly did so, using a thumb. The red light stayed red.

"Nines. Three nines."

Again the light stayed red.

Holly quickly tried all ten digits three times. None had any effect.

Artemis sighed. "Very well. Triple digits was a bit too obvious, I suppose. Are there any other three-digit numbers that are burned into fairy consciousness? Something all fairies would know, and wouldn’t be likely to forget?"

Holly racked her brain. "Nine five one. The Haven area code."

"Try it."

She did. No good.

"Nine five eight. The Atlantis code."

Again no good.

"Those numbers are too regional," snapped Artemis. "What is the one number that every male, female, and infant knows?"

Holly’s eyes widened. "Of course. Of course. Nine zero nine. The police emergency number. It’s on the corner of every billboard under the world."

Artemis noticed something. The howling had stopped. The trolls had ceased fighting and were sniffing the air. The pheromones were in the breeze, drawing the beasts like puppets on strings. In eerie unison, their heads turned toward Holly and Artemis’s hiding place.

Artemis shook his manacles. "Try it quickly."

Holly did. The light winked green, and the cuffs popped open.

"Good. Excellent. Now let me do yours."

Artemis’s fingers paused over the keyboard. "I don’t read the fairy language or numerals."

"You do. In fact, you are the only human who does," said Holly. "You just don’t remember. The pad is standard layout. Zero to nine. Left to right."

"Nine zero nine," muttered Artemis, pressing the appropriate keys. Holly’s cuffs popped on the first try, which was fortunate because there would be no time for a second.

The trolls were coming, loping from the temple’s steps with frightening speed and coordination. They used the weight of their shaggy arms to swing forward, while simultaneously straightening muscular legs. This launch method could take them up to twenty feet in a single bound. The animals landed on their knuckles, swinging their legs underneath for the next jump.

It was an almost petrifying sight. A score of crazed carnivores, jostling their way down a shallow sandy incline. The larger males took the easy way down, charging right through the ravine. Adolescents and older males stuck to the slopes, wary of casual bites and scything tusks. The trolls crashed through mannequins and scenery, heading straight for the tent. Dreadlocks swung with every step, and eyes glowed red in the half light. They held their heads back so their highest point was their nose. Noses that were leading them directly to Holly and Artemis. And what was worse, Holly and Artemis could smell the trolls, too.

Holly stuck both pairs of cuffs into her belt. They had charge packs and could be adapted for heat or even weapons, if Holly lived long enough to use them.

"Okay, Mud Boy. Into the water."

Artemis did not argue or question; there was no time for that. He could only assume that, like many animals, trolls were not water lovers. He ran toward the river, feeling the ground below his feet vibrate with a hundred feet and fists. The howling had started again too, but it had a more reckless tone, mindless and brutal, as if whatever self-control the trolls had was now gone.

Artemis hustled to catch up to Holly. She was ahead of him, lithe and limber, bending low to scoop up one of the fake plastic logs from a campfire. Artemis did the same, tucking it under his arm. They could be in the water for a long time.

Holly dived in, gracefully arcing through the air before entering the water with barely a splash. Artemis stumbled after her. All this running for one’s life was not what he was built for. His brain was big, but his limbs were slight, which was exactly the opposite of what you needed when trolls were at your heels.

The water was lukewarm, yet the mouthful Artemis inadvertently swallowed tasted remarkably sweet. No pollutants, he supposed, with that small portion of his brain that was still thinking rationally. Something tagged his ankle, slicing through sock and flesh. Then he kicked into the river, and he was clear. A trail of hot blood lingered for a moment, before being whipped away by the current.

Holly was treading water in the center of the river. Her auburn hair stood up in slick spikes, and her suit crackled to match the background where the mud had been washed off.

"Are you hurt?" she asked.

Artemis shook his head. No breath for words.

Holly noticed his ankle, which was trailing behind him.

"Blood, and I don’t have a drop of magic left to heal you. That blood is almost as bad as pheromones. We have to get out of here."

On the bank the trolls were literally hopping mad. They head-butted the earth repeatedly, drumming their fists in complex rhythms.

"Mating ritual," explained Holly. "I think they like us."

The current was strong out in the center of the river, and drew the pair quickly downstream. The trolls followed along, some hurling small missiles into the water. One clipped Holly’s plastic log, almost dislodging her.

She spat out a mouthful of water. "We need a plan, Artemis. That’s your department. I got us this far."

"Oh yes, well done, you," said Artemis, having apparently recovered his sense of sarcasm. He raked wet strands of hair from his eyes and cast around, beyond the melee on the waterline. The temple was huge, throwing an elongated multipronged shadow across the desert area. The interior was wide open, with no obvious shelter from the trolls. The only deserted spot was the temple roof.

"Can trolls climb?" he spluttered.

Holly followed his gaze. "Yes, if they have to, like big monkeys. But only if they have to."

Artemis frowned. "If only I could remember," he said. "If only I knew what I know."

Holly kicked over to him, grasping his collar. They swirled in the white water, bubbles and froth squeezing between their logs.

"If only is no good, Mud Boy. We need a plan before the filter."

"The filter?"

"This is an artificial river. It’s filtered through a central tank."

A bulb went on in Artemis’s brain. "A central tank. That’s our way out."

"We’ll be killed! I have no idea how long we’ll be underwater."

Artemis took one last look around, measuring, calculating. "Given the present circumstances, there is no other option."

Up ahead, the currents began to circle, pulling in any rubbish picked up from the banks. A small whirlpool formed in the middle of the river. The sight of it seemed to calm the trolls. They gave up on the butting and banging, and settled down to watch. Some moved along the bank; these would later prove to be the clever ones.

"We follow the current," shouted Artemis over the hiss. "We follow it and hope."

"That’s it? That’s your brilliant plan?" Holly’s suit crackled as the water wormed its way into the circuits.

"It’s not so much a plan as a lifesaving strategy," retorted Artemis. He would have said more but the river interrupted him, snatching him away from his elfin companion into the whirlpool.

He felt about as significant as a twig in the face of such power. If he tried to resist the water, it would slap the air from his lungs like a bully slapping his victim. Artemis’s chest was compressed; even when his gasping mouth was above water, he could not force adequate amounts of air into his lungs. His brain was starved of oxygen. He couldn’t think straight. Everything was curved. The swirl of his body, the sweep of the water. White circles on blue ones on green ones. His feet dancing little Möbius strip patterns below his body. Riverdance. Ha-ha.

Holly was before him, pinioning the two logs between them. A makeshift raft. She shouted something, but it was lost. There was only water now. Water and confusion.

She held up three fingers. Three seconds. Then they were going under. Artemis breathed as deeply as his constricted chest would allow. Two fingers now. Then one.

Artemis and Holly let go of their logs and the current sucked them under like spiders down a drain. Artemis fought to hold on to his air, but the buffeting water squeezed it from between his lips. Bubbles spiraled behind them, racing for the surface.

The water was not so deep or dark. But it was fast and would not allow many images to stand still long enough to be identified. Holly’s face flashed past Artemis, but all he could make out were big hazel eyes.

The whirlpool’s funnel grew narrower, forcing Holly and Artemis together. They were swept diagonally down in a flurry of bumping torsos and flapping limbs. They pressed their foreheads together, finding some comfort in each other’s eyes. But it was short lived. Their progress was brutally cut short by a metal grille covering the drainage pipe. They slammed into it, feeling the sharp wire leave indents on their skin.

Holly slapped at the grille, then wormed her fingers through the holes. The grille was shiny and new. Fresh weld marks dotted its rim. This was new and everything else was old. Koboi!

Something nudged Holly’s arm. An aqua-pod. It was anchored to the grille by a plastic tie. Opal’s face filled the small screen sealed inside, and her grin filled most of her face. She was saying something again and again on a short loop. The words were inaudible over the din of sluice and bubble, but the meaning was clear: I beat you again.

Holly grabbed the aqua-pod, ripping it from its tether. The effort threw her from the slipstream into the relatively calm surrounding waters. Her strength was gone, and she had no option but to go where the river led her. Artemis dragged himself from the flat face of the grille, using the last of his oxygen to kick his legs, just twice.

He was free of the whirlpool, floating along after Holly toward a dark mound farther down the river. Air, he thought with keen desperation, I need to breathe. Not soon. Now. If not now, never.

Artemis broke the surface mouth first. His throat was sucking down air before the water cleared. The first breath came back up, laced with fluid, but the second was clear, and the third. Artemis felt the strength flow back into his limbs like mercury in his veins.

Holly was safe. Lying on a dark island in the river. Her chest heaved like a bellows and the aqua-pod lay beneath her splayed fingers.

"Uh-uh," said Opal Koboi on-screen. "So-o-o predictable." She said it over and over, until Artemis struggled from the shallow water, climbed on the mound, and found the MUTE button.

"I am really starting to dislike her," he panted. "She may come to regret little touches like the underwater television, because it’s things like this that give me the motivation to get out of here."

Holly sat up, looking around. They were sitting on a mound of rubbish. Artemis guessed that since Opal had welded the grille across the filter pipe, the current had swept everything that the trolls discarded to this shallow spot. A small island of junk in the river bend. There were disembodied robot heads on the heap, along with battered statues and troll remains. Troll skulls with the thick wedge of forehead bone and rotting pelts.

At least those particular trolls could not eat them. The dangerous trolls that had followed them were working themselves up into a lather again along the banks on both sides. But there was at least twenty feet of six-inch-deep water separating them from the land. They were safe, for the moment.

Artemis felt memories attempting to break through to the surface. He was on the verge of remembering everything, he was certain of it. He sat completely still, willing it to happen. Unconnected images flashed behind his eyes: a mountain of gold, green scaly creatures snorting fireballs, Butler packed in ice. But the images slid from his consciousness like drops of water off a windshield.

Holly sat up. "Anything?"

"Maybe," said Artemis. "Something. I’m not sure. Everything is happening so fast. I need time to meditate."

"We’re out of time," said Holly, climbing to the top of the junk pile. Skulls cracked beneath her feet. "Look."

Artemis turned toward the left bank. One of the trolls had picked up a large rock and raised it over his head. Artemis tried to make himself small. If that rock hit, they would both be gravely injured, at the very least.

The troll grunted like a tennis pro serving, spinning the rock into the river. It barely missed the pile, landing with a huge splash in the shallow waters.

"A poor shot," said Holly.

Artemis frowned. "I doubt it."

A second troll grabbed a missile, and a third. Soon all the brutes were hurling rocks, robot parts, sticks, or whatever they could get their hands on toward the rubbish heap. Not one hit the shivering pair huddled on the pile.

"They keep missing," said Holly. "Every one of them."

Artemis’s bones ached from cold, fear, and sustained tension.

"They’re not trying to hit us," he said. "They’re building a bridge."

Tara, Ireland; Dawn

The fairy shuttleport in Tara was the biggest in Europe. More than eight thousand tourists a year passed through its X-ray arches. Thirty thousand cubic feet of terminal concealed beneath an overgrown hillock in the middle of the McGraney farm. It was a marvel of subterranean architecture.

Mulch Diggums, fugitive kleptomaniac dwarf, was pretty marvelous himself, in the subterranean area. Butler drove the Fowl Bentley north from the manor, and on Mulch’s instructions, slowed the luxury car down five hundred yards from the shuttleport’s camouflaged entrance. This allowed Mulch to dive from the rear door straight into the earth. He quickly submerged below a layer of rich Irish soil. The best in the world.

Mulch knew the shuttleport layout well. He had once broken his cousin Nord out of police custody here, when the LEP had arrested him on industrial pollution charges. A vein of clay ran right up to the shuttleport wall, and if you knew where to look, there was a sheet of metal casing that had been worn thin by years of Irish damp. But on this particular occasion, Mulch was not interested in evading the LEP; quite the opposite.

Mulch surfaced inside the holographic bush that hid the shuttleport’s service entrance. He climbed from his tunnel, shook the clay from his behind, got all the tunnel wind out of his system a bit more noisily than was absolutely necessary, and waited.

Five seconds later, the entrance hatch slid across, and four grabbing hands reached out, yanking Mulch into the shuttleport’s interior. Mulch did not resist, allowing himself to be bundled along a dark corridor and into an interview room. He was plonked onto an uncomfortable chair, handcuffed, and left on his own to stew.

Mulch did not have time to stew. Every second he spent sitting here picking the insects from his beard hair was another second that Artemis and Holly had to spend running from trolls.

The dwarf rose from the chair and slapped his palms against the two-way mirror inset in the interview room wall.

"Chix Verbil," he shouted. "I know you’re watching me. We need to talk. It’s about Holly Short."

Mulch kept right on banging on the glass, until the cell door swung open and Chix Verbil entered the room. Chix was the LEP’s fairy on the surface. Chix had been the first LEP casualty in the B’wa Kell goblin revolution a year previously, and had it not been for Holly Short, he would have been its first fatality. As it turned out, he got a medal from the Committee, a series of high-profile interviews on network television, and a cushy surface job in E1.

Chix entered suspiciously, his sprite wings folded behind him. The strap was off his Neutrino holster.

"Mulch Diggums, isn’t it? Are you surrendering?"

Mulch snorted. "What do you think? I go to all the trouble of breaking out, just to surrender to a sprite. I think not, lamebrain."

Chix bristled, his wings fanning out behind him. "Hey, listen, dwarf. You’re in no position to be making cracks. You’re in my custody, in case you hadn’t noticed. There are six security fairies surrounding this room."

"Security fairies. Don’t make me laugh. They couldn’t secure an apple in an orchard. I escaped from a sub-shuttle under a couple of miles of water. I can see at least six ways out of here without breaking a sweat."

Chix hovered nervously. "I’d like to see you try. I’d have two charges in your behind before you could unhinge that jaw of yours."

Mulch winced. Dwarfs don’t like behind jokes.

"Okay, easy there, Mister Gung Ho. Let’s talk about your wing. How’s it healing up?"

"How do you know about that?"

"It was big news. You were all over the TV for a while, even on pirate satellite. I was watching your ugly face in Chicago not so long ago."

Chix preened. "Chicago?"

"That’s right. You were saying, if I remember properly, how Holly Short saved your life, and how sprites never forget a debt, and whenever she needed you, you were there, whatever it took."

Chix coughed nervously. "A lot of that was scripted. And anyway, that was before . . ."

"Before one of the most decorated officers in the LEP decided to suddenly go crazy and shoot her own commander?"

"Yes. Before that."

Mulch looked Verbil straight in his green face. "You don’t believe that, do you?"

Chix hovered even higher for a long moment, his wings whipping the air into currents. Then he settled back down to earth and sat in the room’s second chair. "No. I don’t believe it. Not for a second. Julius Root was like a father to Holly. To all of us." He covered his face with his hands, afraid to hear the answer to his next question. "So, Diggums. Why are you here?"

Mulch leaned in close. "Is this being recorded?"

"Of course. Standard operating procedure."

"Can you switch off the mike?"

"I suppose. Why should I?"

"Because I’m going to tell you something important for the People’s survival. But I’ll only tell you if the mikes are off."

Chix’s wings began to flap once more. "This better be really good. I better really like this, dwarf."

Mulch shrugged. "Oh, you’re not going to like it. But it is really good."

Chix’s green fingers tapped a code into a keyboard on the table. "Okay, Diggums. We can talk freely."

Mulch leaned forward across the desk. "The thing is, Opal Koboi is back."

Chix did not respond verbally, but the color drained from his face. Instead of its usual robust emerald, the sprite’s complexion was now pasty lime green.

"Opal has escaped, somehow, and she has set this big revenge thing in motion. First General Scalene, then Commander Root, and now Holly and Artemis Fowl."

"O . . . Opal?" stammered Chix, his wounded wing suddenly throbbing.

"She’s taking out anyone who had a hand in her imprisonment. Which, if memory serves, includes you."

"I didn’t do anything," squeaked Verbil, as though protesting his innocence to Mulch could help him.

Mulch sat back. "Hey, there’s no point telling me. I’m not out to get you. If I remember correctly, you were on all the chat shows spouting how you personally were the first member of the LEP to come into contact with the goblin smugglers."

"Maybe she didn’t see that," said Chix hopefully. "She was in a coma."

"I’m sure someone taped it for her."

Verbil thought about it, absently grooming his wings. "So what do you want from me?"

"I need you to get a message to Foaly. Tell him what I said about Opal." Mulch covered his mouth with a hand to fox any lip-readers who might review the tape. "And I want the LEP shuttle. I know where it’s parked. I just need the starter chip and the ignition code."

"What? Ridiculous. I’d go to jail."

Mulch shook his head. "No, no. Without sound, all Police Plaza are going to see is another ingenious Mulch Diggums’s escape. I knock you out, steal your chip, and tunnel out through the pipe behind that water dispenser."

Chix frowned. "Go back to the ‘knock me out’ part again."

Mulch slammed one palm down on the table. "Listen, Verbil, Holly is in mortal danger right now. She may already be dead."

"That’s what I heard," interjected Chix.

"Well, she will definitely be dead if I don’t get down there right now."

"Why don’t I just call this in?"

Mulch sighed dramatically. "Because, moron, by the time Police Plaza Retrieval team gets here, it will be too late. You know the rules: no LEP officer can act on the information of a convicted felon unless the information has been verified by another source."

"No one pays any attention to that rule, and calling me moron isn’t helping."

Mulch rose to his feet. "You are a sprite, for heaven’s sake. You are supposed to have this ancient code of chivalry. A female saved your life and now hers is in danger. You are honor bound, as a sprite, to do whatever it takes."

Chix held Mulch’s gaze. "Is all of this true? Tell me, Mulch, because this will have repercussions. This isn’t some little jewelry heist."

"It’s true," said Mulch. "You have my word."

Chix almost laughed. "Oh, whoopee. Mulch Diggums’s word. I can take that to the bank." He took several deep breaths and closed his eyes. "The chip is in my pocket. The code is written on the tab. Try not to break anything."

"Don’t worry, I’m an excellent driver."

Chix winced in anticipation. "I don’t mean the shuttle, stupid. I mean my face. The ladies like me the way I am."

Mulch drew back one gnarled fist. "Well, I’d hate to disappoint the ladies," he said, and knocked Chix Verbil from his chair.

Mulch expertly rifled through Chix’s pockets. The sprite was not actually unconscious, but he was pretending.

A wise move. In seconds, Mulch had removed the starter chip and stuffed it into his beard. A clump of beard hair wrapped itself tightly around the chip, forming a waterproof cocoon. He also relieved Verbil of his Neutrino, though that was not part of the deal. Mulch crossed the room in two strides and jammed a chair under the door handle. That should buy me a couple of seconds, he thought. He wrapped an arm around the water dispenser while simultaneously unbuttoning his bum-flap. Speed was vital now because whoever had been watching the interview through the two-way mirror was already hammering on the door. Mulch saw a black burn dot appear on the door; they were burning their way in.

He ripped the dispenser from the wall, allowing several gallons of cooled water to flood the interview room.

"Oh, for heaven’s sake," moaned Chix from the floor. "It takes forever to dry these wings."

"Shut up. You’re supposed to be unconscious."

As soon as the water had drained from the supply pipe, Mulch dived into the pipe. He followed it to the first joint, then kicked it loose. Clumps of clay fell through, blocking the pipe. Mulch unhinged his jaw. He was back in the earth. No one could catch him now.

The shuttlebay was on the lower level, closest to the chute itself. Mulch angled himself downward, guided by his infallible dwarf internal compass. He had been in this terminal before, and the layout was burned into his memory, as was the layout of every building that he’d ever been in. Sixty seconds of chewing earth, stripping it of minerals, and ejecting waste at the other end brought Mulch face-to-face with an air duct. This particular duct led straight to the shuttlebay; the dwarf could even feel the vibration of the engines through his beard hair.

Generally he would burn through the duct’s metal paneling with a few drops of dwarf rock polish, but prison guards tended to confiscate items like that, so instead Mulch blasted a panel with a concentrated burst from the stolen handgun. The panel melted like a sheet of ice in front of a bar heater. He gave the molten metal a minute to solidify and cool, then slithered into the duct itself. Two left turns later, his face was pressed to the grille overlooking the shuttlebay itself. Red alarm lights were revolving over every door, and a harsh Klaxon made sure that everyone knew that there was some sort of emergency. The shuttlebay workers were gathered in front of the intranet screen, waiting for news.

Mulch dropped to the ground with more grace than his frame suggested was possible and creeped across to the LEP shuttle. The shuttle was suspended nose-up over a vertical supply tunnel. Mulch crept aboard, opening the passenger door with Chix Verbil’s chip. The controls were hugely complicated, but Mulch had a theory about vehicle controls: Ignore everything except the wheel and the pedals, and you’ll be fine. So far in his career, he had stolen more than fifty types of transportation, and his theory hadn’t let him down yet.

The dwarf thrust the starter chip into its socket, ignoring the computer’s advice that he run a systems’ check, and hit the release button. Eight tons of LEP shuttle dropped like a stone into the chute, spinning like an ice skater. The earth’s gravity grabbed hold of it, reeling it in toward the earth’s core.

Mulch’s foot jabbed the thruster pedal just enough to halt the drop.

The radio on the dash started talking to him. "You in the shuttle. You’d better come back here right now. I’m not kidding! In twenty seconds I personally am going to press the self-destruct button."

Mulch spat a wad of dwarf spittle onto the speaker, muffling the irate voice. He gargled up another wad in his throat and deposited it on a circuit box below the radio. The circuits sparked and fizzled. So much for the self-destruct.

The controls were a bit heavier than Mulch was used to. Nevertheless, he managed to tame the machine after a few scrapes along the chute wall. If the LEP ever recovered the craft, it would need a fresh coat of paint, and perhaps a new starboard fender.

A bolt of sizzling laser energy flashed past the porthole.

That was his warning shot. One across the bows before they let the computer do the aiming. Time to be gone. Mulch kicked off his boots, wrapped his double-jointed toes around the pedals, and sped down the chute toward the rendezvous point.

Butler parked the Bentley fifteen miles northeast of Tara, near a cluster of rocks shaped like a clenched fist. The index finger rock was hollow, just as Mulch had told him it would be. However, the dwarf had neglected to mention that the opening would be cluttered with potato crisp bags and chewing-gum patties left over from a thousand teenagers’ picnics. Butler picked his way through the rubbish to discover two boys huddled at the rear, smoking secret cigarettes. A Labrador pup was asleep at their feet. Obviously these two had volunteered to walk the dog so they could sneak some cigarettes. Butler did not like smoking.

The boys looked up at the enormous figure looming above them, their jaded teenage expressions freezing on their faces.

Butler pointed at the cigarettes. "Those things will seriously damage your health," he growled. "And if they don’t, I might."

The teenagers stubbed out their cigarettes and scurried from the cave, which was exactly what Butler wanted them to do. He pushed aside a wizened scrub cluster at the rear of the cave to discover a mud wall.

"Punch right through the mud," Mulch had told him. "Generally I eat through and patch it up afterward, but you might not want to do that."

Butler jabbed four rigid fingers at the center of the mud wall, where cracks were beginning to spread, and sure enough the wall was only inches thick and crumbled easily under the pressure. The bodyguard pulled away chunks until there was sufficient space to squeeze through to the tunnel beyond.

To say there was sufficient space is perhaps a slight exaggeration; barely enough is probably more accurate. Butler’s bulky frame was compressed on all sides by uneven walls of black clay. Occasionally a jagged rock poked through, tearing a gash in his designer suit. That was two suits ruined in as many days. One in Munich, and now the second belowground in Ireland. Still, suits were the least of his worries. If Mulch was right, then Artemis was running around the Lower Elements right now with a group of bloodthirsty trolls on his trail. Butler had fought a troll once, and the battle had very nearly killed him. He couldn’t even imagine fighting an entire group.

Butler dug his fingers into the earth, pulling himself forward through the tunnel. This particular tunnel, Mulch had informed him, was one of many illicit back doors into the Lower Elements chute system chewed out by fugitive dwarfs over the centuries. Mulch himself had excavated this one almost three hundred years ago, when he had needed to sneak back to Haven for his cousin’s birthday bash. Butler tried not to think about the dwarf’s recycling process as he went.

After several feet the tunnel widened into a bulb-shaped chamber. The walls glowed a gentle green. Mulch had explained that too. The walls were coated with dwarf spittle, which hardened on prolonged contact with air, and also glowed. Amazing. Drinking pores, living hairs, and now luminous saliva. What next? Explosive phlegm? He wouldn’t be a bit surprised. Who knew what secrets the dwarfs were hiding up their sleeves? Or in other places?

Butler kicked aside a pile of rabbit bones, the remains of previous dwarf snacks, and sat down to wait.

He checked the luminous face of his Omega wristwatch. He had dropped Mulch at Tara almost thirty minutes ago; the little man should be here by now. The bodyguard would have paced the chamber, but there was barely enough space for him to stand up, never mind pace. The bodyguard crossed his legs, settling down for a power nap. He hadn’t slept since the missile attack in Germany, and he wasn’t as young as he used to be. His heart rate and breathing slowed until eventually his chest barely moved at all.

Eight minutes later, the small chamber began to shake violently. Chunks of brittle spittle cracked from the wall, shattering on the floor. The ground beneath his feet glowed red, and a stream of insects and worms flowed away from the hot spot. Butler stood to one side, calmly brushing himself down. Moments later a cylindrical section of earth dropped cleanly out of the floor, leaving a steaming hole.

Mulch’s voice drifted through the hole, borne on the waves of the stolen shuttle’s amplification system.

"Let’s go, Mud Man. Move yourself. We have people to save, and the LEP are on my tail."

On Mulch Diggums’s tail, thought Butler, shuddering. Not a nice place to be.

Nevertheless, the bodyguard lowered himself into the hole and through the open roof hatch of the hovering LEP shuttle. Police shuttles were cramped, even for fairies, but Butler could not even sit up straight in a chair, even if there had been a chair wide enough for him. He had to content himself with kneeling behind the command seat.

"All set?" he inquired.

Mulch picked a beetle from Butler’s shoulder. He shoved it into his beard, where the unfortunate insect was immediately cocooned by hair.

"For later," he explained. "Unless you want it?"

Butler smiled, but it was an effort. "Thanks. I already ate."

"Oh, really? Well whatever you ate, hold on to it, because we are in a hurry, so I may have to break a few speed limits."

The dwarf cracked every joint in his fingers and toes, then sent the craft into a steep spiraling dive. Butler slid to the rear of the craft, and had to hook three seat belts together to prevent further jostling.

"Is this really necessary?" he grunted through rippling cheeks.

"Look behind you," replied Mulch.

Butler struggled to his knees, directing his gaze through the rear window. They were being pursued by a trio of what looked like fireflies, but what were actually smaller shuttles. The crafts matched their every spiral and jink exactly. One fired a small sparking torpedo that sent a shock wave sparking through the hull. Butler felt the pores in his shaven head tingle.

"LEP uni-pods," explained Mulch. "They just took out our communications mast, in case we have accomplices in the chutes somewhere. Those pods have got a lock on our navigation’s system. Their own computers will follow us forever, unless."

"Unless what?"

"Unless we can outrun them. Get out of their range."

Butler tightened the belts across his torso. "And can we?"

Mulch flexed his fingers and toes. "Let’s find out," he said, flicking the throttle wide.

The Eleven Wonders, Temple of Artemis Exhibit, The Lower Elements

Holly and Artemis huddled together on the small island of rotting carcasses, waiting for the trolls to finish their bridge. The creatures were frantic now, hurling rock after rock into the shallow water. Some even braved placing a toe in the currents, but quickly drew them out again with horrified howls.

Holly wiped water from her eyes. "Okay," she said. "I have a plan. I stay here and fight them. You go back in the river."

Artemis shook his head curtly. "I appreciate it. But no. It would be suicide for both of us. The trolls would devour you in a second, then simply wait for the current to sweep me right back here. There must be another way."

Holly threw a troll skull at the nearest creature. The brute caught it deftly in his talons, crushing it to shards. "I’m listening, Artemis."

Artemis rubbed a knuckle against his forehead, willing the memory block to dissolve. "If I could remember. Then maybe ..."

"Don’t you remember anything?"

"Images. Something. Nothing coherent. Just nightmare pictures. This could all be a hallucination. That is the most likely explanation. Perhaps I should just relax and wait to wake up."

"Think of it as a challenge. If this were a role-playing game, how would the character escape?"

"If this were a war game, I would need to know the other side’s weaknesses. Water is one . . ."

"And light," blurted Holly. "Trolls hate light. It burns their retinas."

The creatures were venturing onto their makeshift bridge now, testing each step carefully. The stink of their unwashed fur and fetid breath drifted across to the little island.

"Light," repeated Artemis. "That’s why they like it here. Hardly any light."

"Yes. The Glo-Strips are on emergency power, and the fake sun is on minimum."

Artemis glanced upward. Holographic clouds scudded across an imitation sky, and right in the center, poised dramatically above the temple’s roof, was a crystal sun, with barely a flicker of power in its belly.

An idea blossomed in his mind. "There is scaffolding on the near corner of the temple. If we could climb up and get to the sun, could you use the power cells from our cuffs to light up the sun?"

Holly frowned. "Yes, I suppose. But how do we get past the trolls?"

Artemis picked up the waterproof pod that had been playing Opal’s video message.

"We distract them with a little television."

Holly fiddled with the pod’s on-screen controls until she found brightness. She flicked the setting to maximum. Opal’s image was whited out by a block of glaring light.

"Hurry," advised Artemis, tugging Holly’s sleeve. The first troll was halfway across the bridge, followed by the rest of the precariously balanced bunch. The world’s shaggiest conga line.

Holly wrapped her arms around the tele-pod. "This is probably not going to work," she said.

Artemis moved behind her. "I know, but there is no other option."

"Okay. But if we don’t make it, I’m sorry you don’t remember. It’s good to be with a friend at a time like this."

Artemis squeezed her shoulder. "If we make it through this, we will be friends. Bonded by trauma."

Their little island was shaking now. Skulls were dislodged from their perches, rolling into the water. The trolls were almost upon them, picking their way across the precarious walkway, squealing at every drop of water that landed on their fur. Any trolls still on the shoreline were hammering the earth with their knuckles, long ropes of drool swinging from their jaws.

Holly waited until the last moment for maximum effect. The tele-pod’s screen was pressed into the rubbish heap, so the approaching animals would not have a clue as to what was coming.

"Holly?" said Artemis urgently.

"Wait," whispered Holly. "Just a few seconds more."

The first troll in the line reached their island. This was obviously the pack leader. He reared up to a height of almost ten feet, shaking his shaggy head and howling at the artificial sky. Then he appeared to notice that Artemis and Holly were not in fact female trolls, and a savage rage took hold of his tiny brain. Dribbles of venom dropped from his tusks, and he inverted his talons for an upward slash. Trolls’ preferred kill strike was under the ribs. This popped the heart quickly and did not give the meat time to toughen.

More trolls crowded onto the tiny island, eager for a share in the kill or a shot at a new mate. Holly chose that moment to act. She swung the tele-pod upward, pointing the buzzing screen directly at the nearest troll. The creature reared back, clawing at the hated light as though it were a solid enemy. The light blasted the troll’s retinas, sending him staggering backward into his companions. A group of the animals tumbled into the river. Panic spread back along the line like a virus. The creatures reacted to water as though it were acid dappling their fur and backpedaled furiously toward the shore. This was no orderly retreat. Anything in the way got scythed or bitten. Gouts of venom and blood flew through the air, and the water bubbled as though it were boiling. The troll’s howls of bloodlust changed to keening screams of pain and terror.

This can’t be real, thought a stunned Artemis Fowl. I must be hallucinating. Perhaps I am in a coma, following the fall from the hotel window. And because his brain provided this possible explanation, his memories stayed under lock and key.

"Grab my belt," ordered Holly, advancing across the makeshift bridge. Artemis obeyed instantly. This was not the time to argue about leadership. In any case, if there were the slightest possibility that this was actually happening, then Captain Short was better qualified to handle these creatures.

Holly wielded the tele-pod like a portable laser cannon, advancing step-by-step across the makeshift bridge. Artemis tried to concentrate on keeping his balance on the treacherous ground. They stepped from rock to rock, wobbling like novice tightrope walkers. Holly swung the tele-pod in smooth arcs, blasting trolls from every angle.

Too many, thought Artemis. There are too many. We can never make it.

But there was no future in giving up. So they kept going, taking two steps forward and one step back.

A crafty bull ducked low, avoiding Holly’s first sweep. He reached out one talon, cracking the pod’s waterproof casing. Holly stumbled backward, knocking over Artemis. The pair keeled over into the river, landing with a solid thump in the shallow water.

Artemis felt the air shoot from his lungs, and took an instinctive breath. Unfortunately he took in water rather than air. Holly kept her elbows locked, so the ruptured casing stayed out of the river. Some splash drops crept into the crack, and sparks began to play across the screen.

Holly struggled to her feet, simultaneously aiming the screen at the bull troll. Artemis came up behind her, coughing water from his lungs.

"The screen’s damaged," panted Holly. "I don’t know how much time we have."

Artemis wiped strands of hair from his eyes. "Go," he spluttered. "Go."

They trudged through the water, stepping around thrashing trolls. Holly chose a clear spot on the bank to climb ashore. It was a relief to be on dry land again, but at least the water had been on their side, as it were; now they were truly in troll territory.

The remaining animals encircled them at a safe distance. Whenever one came too close, Holly swung the tele-pod in its direction, and the creature skipped back as though stung.

Artemis fought the cold and the fatigue and the shock in his system. His ankle was scalded where the troll had snagged him.

"We need to go straight for the temple," he said through chattering teeth. "Up the scaffolding."

"Okay. Hold on."

Holly took several deep breaths, building up her strength. Her arms were sore from holding the tele-pod, but she would not let the fatigue show in her face, or the fear. She looked those trolls straight in their red eyes and let them know they were dealing with a formidable enemy.

"Ready?"

"Ready," replied Artemis, although he was no such thing.

Holly took one final breath, then charged. The trolls were not expecting this tactic. After all, what kind of creature would attack a troll? They broke ranks in the face of the arc of white light, and their disconcertion lasted just long enough for Artemis and Holly to charge through the hole in the line.

They hurried up the incline toward the temple. Holly made no attempt to avoid the trolls, running straight at them. When they lashed out in temporary blindness, they only caused more confusion among themselves. A dozen vicious squabbles erupted in Holly and Artemis’s wake, as the animals accidentally sliced each other with razor-sharp talons. Some of the cannier trolls used the opportunity to settle old scores. The squabbles chain-reacted across the plain until the entire area was a mass of writhing animals and dust.

Artemis grunted and puffed his way up the ravine, his fingers wrapped around Holly’s belt. Captain Short’s breathing had settled into a steady rhythm of quick bursts.

I am not physically fit, thought Artemis. And it may cost me dearly. I need to exercise more than my brain in the future. If I have a future.

The temple loomed above them, a scale model, but still over fifty feet high. Dozens of identical columns rose into the holographic clouds, supporting a triangular roof decorated with intricate plaster moldings. The columns’ lower regions were scarred by a thousand claw marks where younger trolls had scampered out of harm’s way. Artemis and Holly clambered up the twenty or so steps to the columns themselves.

Fortunately there were no trolls on the scaffolding. All of the animals were busy trying to kill each other, or avoid being killed, but it was only a matter of seconds before they remembered that there were intruders in their midst. Fresh meat. Not many of the trolls had tasted elf meat, but those who had were eager to try it again. Only one of the present gathering had tasted human meat, and the memory of its sweetness still haunted his dull brain at night.

It was this particular troll who hauled himself from the river, carrying twenty extra pound’s of moisture weight. He casually cuffed a cub who had come too close, and sniffed the air. There was a new scent here. A scent he could remember from his short time under the moon. The scent of man. The mere recognition of the smell brought saliva flowing from the glands in his throat. He set off at a pitched run toward the temple. Soon there was a rough group of flesh-hungry beasts hurtling toward the scaffolding.

"We’re back on the menu," noted Holly when she reached the scaffolding.

Artemis unhooked his fingers from the LEP captain’s belt. He would have answered, but his lungs demanded oxygen. He whooped in gulps of air, resting his knuckles on his knees.

Holly took his elbow. "No time for that, Artemis. You have to climb."

"After you," Artemis managed to gasp. He knew his father would never allow a lady to remain in distress while he himself fled.

"No time for discussion," said Holly, steering Artemis by the elbow. "Climb for the sun. I’ll buy us a few seconds with the tele-pod. Go."

Artemis looked into Holly’s eyes to say thank you. They were round and hazel and . . . familiar? Memories fought to be free of their bonds, pounding against cell walls.

"Holly?" he said.

Holly spun him around to the bars, and the moment was gone. "Up. You’re wasting time."

Artemis marshaled his exhausted limbs, trying to coordinate his movements. Step, grab, pull. It should be easy enough. He’d climbed ladders before. One ladder at least. Surely.

The scaffold bars were coated with gripped rubber, especially for climbers, and were spaced precisely sixteen inches apart, the comfortable reach distance of the average fairy. Also, coincidentally, the comfortable reach of a fourteen-year-old human. Artemis started to climb, feeling the strain in his arms before he had risen six steps. It was too early to be tired. There was too far to go.

"Come on, Captain," he gasped over his shoulder. "Climb."

"Not just yet," said Holly. She had her back to the scaffold and was trying to find some pattern in the approaching bunches of trolls.

There had been an in-service course on troll attacks in Police Plaza. But that had been in the event of a one-on-one situation. To Holly’s eternal embarrassment, the lecturer had used video footage of her own tangle with a troll in Italy over two years ago. "This," the lecturer had said, freezing Holly’s image in the big screen, and rapping it with a telescopic pointer, "is a classic example of how not to do it."

This was a completely different scenario. They had never received instruction on what to do when attacked by an entire pack of trolls in their own habitat. No one, the instructors reasoned, would be that stupid.

There were two converging groups coming straight toward her. One from the river, led by a veritable monster with anesthetic venom dripping from both tusks. Holly knew that if one drop of that venom got under her skin, she would fall into a happy stupor. And even if she escaped the troll’s claws, the slow poison would eventually paralyze her.

The second group approached from the western ridge, composed mainly of latecomers and cubs. There were a few females in the center of the temple itself, but they were taking advantage of the distraction to pick meat from abandoned carcasses.

Holly flicked the tele-pod’s setting to low. She would have to time this exactly right for maximum effect. This was the last chance she would get, because once she started to climb, then she could no longer aim.

The trolls sped up the temple steps, jostling for first place. The two groups were approaching at right angles, both headed directly toward Holly. The leaders launched themselves from a distance, determined to get the first bite of the intruder. Their lips peeled back to reveal rows of carnivorous teeth, and their eyes focused solely on the target. And that was when Holly acted. She flicked the brightness setting to high and scorched the retinas of the two beasts while they were still in the air. With piercing howls, they swatted the hated light and crashed to the ground in a melee of arms, claws, tusks, and teeth. Each troll assumed he was being attacked by a rival group, and in seconds the scaffold’s base was a chaos of primal violence.

Holly took full advantage of the confusion, skipping lithely up the first three rungs of the metal structure. She clipped the tele-pod onto her belt so that it pointed downward like a rear gun. Not much protection, but better than nothing.

In moments, she had caught up with Artemis. The human boy’s breath was ragged and his progress was slow. A slow stream of blood dripped from the wound on his ankle. Holly could easily have passed him, but instead she hooked an arm through the bars of the ladder and checked on the troll situation. Just as well. One relatively little guy was scaling the bars with the agility of a mountain gorilla. His immature tusks barely jutted beyond his lips, but those tusks were sharp and venom gathered in beads along the tips. Holly turned the tele-screen on him, and he released his grip to shield his scorched eyes. An elf would have been smart enough to hang on with one hand and use the other forearm to shield the eyes, but trolls are not much farther up the IQ scale than stinkworms, and act almost completely on instinct.

The little troll tumbled back to earth, landing on the shaggy, writhing carpet below. He was instantly dragged into the brawl. Holly returned to the climb, feeling the tele-pod knock against her back. Artemis’s progress was painfully slow, and in less than a minute, she was tight at his shoulder.

"Are you all right?"

Artemis nodded, tight lipped. But his eyes were wide, on the verge of panic. Holly had seen that look before, on the faces of battle-stressed LEP officers. She needed to get the Mud Boy to safety before he lost his reason.

"Come on now, Artemis. Just a few more steps. We’re going to make it."

Artemis closed his eyes for five seconds, breathing deeply through his nose. When he opened them again, they shone with a new resolve.

"Very well, Captain. I’m ready."

Artemis reached above him for the next bar, hauling himself sixteen inches closer to salvation. Holly followed, urging him on like a drill sergeant.

It took a further minute to reach the roof itself. By this time the trolls had remembered what they were chasing, and had begun to scale the scaffolding. Holly dragged Artemis onto the slanted roof and they scampered on all fours toward its highest point. The plaster was white and unmarked. In the low light it seemed as though they were walking across a field of snow.

Artemis paused. The sight had awoken a vague memory. "Snow," he said uncertainly. "I remember something . . ."

Holly caught his shoulder, dragging him forward. "Yes, Artemis. The Arctic, remember? We’ll discuss it at great length later, when there are no trolls trying to eat us."

Artemis snapped back to the present. "Very well. Good tactic."

The temple roof sloped upward at a forty-degree angle, toward the crystal orb that was the fake sun. The pair crawled as quickly as Artemis’s exhausted limbs would allow. A ragged trail of blood marked their path across the white plaster. The scaffold shook and banged against the roof as the trolls climbed ever closer.

Holly straddled the roof’s apex and reached up to the crystal sun. The surface was smooth beneath her fingers.

"D’Arvit!" she swore. "I can’t find the power port. There should be an external socket."

Artemis crawled around the other side. He was not particularly afraid of heights, but even so, he tried not to look down. One did not have to suffer from vertigo to be worried by a fifty-foot drop and a pack of ravenous trolls. He stretched upward, probing the globe with the fingers of one hand. His index finger found a small indent.

"I’ve got something," he announced.

Holly scooted around to his side, examining the hole.

"Good," she said. "An external power port. Power cells have uniform connection points, so the cuffs’ cells should clip right on."

She fumbled the cuffs from her pocket and popped the cell covers. The cells themselves were about the size of credit cards, and glowed bright blue along their length.

Holly stood up on the razor-edge rooftop, balancing nimbly on her toes. The trolls were swarming over the lip of the roof now. Advancing like the hounds of hell.

The white roof plaster was blanketed by the black, brown, and ginger of troll fur. Their howls and stink preceded them as they closed in on Holly and Artemis.

Holly waited until they were all over the lip, then slid the power cells into the globe’s socket. The globe buzzed, vibrated to life, then flashed once. A blinding wall of light. For a moment the entire exhibit glowed brilliant white, then the globe faded again with a high-pitched whine.

The trolls rolled like balls on a tilted pool table. Some tumbled over the edge of the roof but most collected on the lip, where they lay whining and scratching their faces.

Artemis closed his eyes to accelerate the return of his night vision. "I had hoped the cell would power the sun for longer. It seems like a lot of effort for such a brief reprieve."

Holly pulled out the dead cells and tossed them aside. "I suppose a globe like this needs a lot of juice."

Artemis blinked, then sat comfortably on the roof, clasping his knees.

"Still. We have some time. It can take nocturnal creatures up to fifteen minutes to recover their orientation following exposure to bright light."

Holly sat beside him. "Fascinating. You’re very calm all of a sudden."

"I have no choice," said Artemis simply. "I have analyzed the situation and concluded that there is no way for us to escape. We are on top of a ridiculous model of the Temple of Artemis, surrounded by temporarily blinded trolls. As soon as they recover, they will lope up here and devour us.

We have perhaps a quarter of an hour to live, and I have no intention of spending it in hysterics for Opal Koboi’s amusement."

Holly looked up, searching the hemisphere for cameras. At least a dozen telltale red lights winked from the darkness. Opal would be able to watch her revenge from every angle.

Artemis was right. Opal would be tickled pink if they fell to pieces for the cameras. She would probably replay the video to cheer herself up when being princess of the world got to be too stressful.

Holly drew back her arm and sent the spent power cells skidding across the roof. It seemed then that this was it. She felt more frustrated than scared. Julius’s final order had been to save Artemis, and she hadn’t managed to accomplish even that.

"I’m sorry you don’t remember Julius," she said. "You two argued a lot, but he admired you behind it all. It was Butler he really liked, though. Those two were on the same wavelength. Two old soldiers."

Below them, the trolls were gathering themselves. Blinking away the stars in their eyes.

Artemis slapped some of the dust from his trousers. "I do remember, Holly. I remember it all. Especially you. It’s a real comfort to have you here."

Holly was surprised. Shocked, even. More by Artemis’s tone than what he had actually said, though that was surprising too. She had never heard Artemis sound so warm, so sincere. Usually, emotional displays were difficult for the boy, and he stumbled through them awkwardly. This wasn’t like him at all.

"That’s very nice, Artemis," she said after a moment’s consideration. "But you don’t have to pretend for me."

Artemis was puzzled. "How did you know? I thought I portrayed the emotions perfectly."

Holly looked down at the massing trolls. They were advancing warily up the slope, heads down in case of a second flash.

"Nobody’s that perfect. That’s how I knew."

The trolls were hurrying now, swinging their hairy forearms forward to increase momentum. As their confidence returned, so did their voices. Their howls to the roof bounced back off the metal structure. Artemis drew his knees closer to his chin. The end. All over. Inconceivable that he should die this way, when there was so much to be done.

The howling made it hard to concentrate. The smell didn’t help either.

Holly gripped his shoulder. "Close your eyes, Artemis. You won’t feel a thing."

But Artemis did not close his eyes. Instead he cast his gaze upward. Aboveground, where his parents were waiting to hear from him. Parents who never had the chance to be truly proud of him.

He opened his mouth to whisper a good-bye, but what he saw over his head choked the words in his throat.

"That proves it," he said. "This must be a hallucination."

Holly looked upward. A section of the hemisphere’s panel had been removed, and a rope was being lowered toward the temple roof. Swinging from the rope was what appeared to be a naked and extremely hairy rear end.

"I don’t believe it!" Holly exclaimed, jumping to her feet. "You took your sweet time getting here!"

She seemed to be conversing with a posterior. And then, even more amazingly, the posterior appeared to answer.

"I love you too, Holly. Now, close anything that’s open, because I’m about to overload these troll’s senses."

For a moment Holly’s face was blank, then realization widened her eyes and sucked the blood from her cheeks. She grabbed Artemis by the shoulders.

"Lie flat with your hands over your ears. Shut your eyes and mouth. And whatever you do, don’t breathe in."

Artemis lay on the roof. "Tell me there’s a creature on the other end of that posterior."

"There is," confirmed Holly. "But it’s the posterior we have to worry about."

The trolls were seconds away by this point. Close enough for Holly and Artemis to see the red in their eyes and the years of dirt caked in every dreadlock.

Overhead, Mulch Diggums (for of course it was he) released a gentle squib of wind from his backside. Just enough to propel him in a gentle circle on the end of his rope. The circular motion was necessary to ensure an even spread of the gas he intended to release. Once he had completed three revolutions, he bore down internally and let fly with every bubble of gas in his bloated stomach.

Because trolls are by nature tunnel creatures, they are guided as much by their sense of smell as their night vision. A blinded troll can often survive for years, navigating his way to food and water supplies by smell alone.

Mulch’s sudden gaseous recyclings sent a million conflicting scent messages to each troll’s brain. The smell was bad enough, and the wind was sufficient to blow back the trolls’ dreadlocks, but the combination of scents inside the dwarf gas, including clay, vegetation, insect life, and everything else Mulch had eaten over the past few days, was enough to short out the trolls’ entire nervous systems. They collapsed to their knees, clasping their poor aching heads in taloned hands. One was so close to Artemis and Holly that its shaggy forearm rested across the LEP captain’s back.

Holly wriggled out from under the limb. "Let’s go," she said, pulling Artemis to his feet. "The gas won’t put the trolls out for any longer than the light."

Overhead, Mulch’s revolutions were slowing.

"I thank you," he said with a theatrical bow, which is not easy on a rope. The dwarf scampered up the rope, gripping with fingers and toes, then lowered it to Artemis and Holly.

"Jump on," he said. "Quickly."

Artemis tested the rope skeptically. "Surely that strange creature is too small to haul both of us all the way up there."

Holly placed her foot in a loop at the rope’s end. "True, but he’s not alone."

Artemis squinted at the hemisphere’s missing panel. Another figure had appeared in the gap. The figure’s features were in deep shadow, but the silhouette was unmistakable.

"Butler!" he said through his smile. "You’re here."

And suddenly, in spite of everything, Artemis felt completely safe.

"Hurry up, Artemis," called his bodyguard. "We don’t have a second to waste."

Artemis stepped onto the rope beside Holly, and Butler quickly pulled them both out of danger.

"Well?" said Holly, her face inches from his own. "We survived. Does that mean we’re friends now? Bonded by trauma."

Artemis frowned. Friends? Did he have room in his life for a friend? Then again, did he have a choice in the matter?

"Yes," he replied. "I’ve had little experience in this area, so I may have to read up on it."

Holly rolled her eyes. "Friendship is not a science, Mud Boy. Forget about your massive brain for one minute. Just do what you feel is right."

Artemis couldn’t believe what he was about to say. Perhaps the thrill of survival was affecting his judgment. "I feel that I shouldn’t be paid to help a friend. Keep your fairy gold. Opal Koboi has to be stopped."

Holly smiled with genuine warmth for the first time since the commander’s death, but there was a hint of steel in there too.

"With the four of us on her tail, she doesn’t stand a chance."





CHAPTER 8

SOME INTELLIGENT CONVERSATION





Mulch had left the stolen LEP shuttle at the theme park gate. It had been a simple matter for Butler to disable the park’s cameras and remove a half-rotted section from the hemisphere’s roof in order to effect the rescue.

When they got back to the shuttle, Holly powered up the engines and ran a systems check.

"What on earth were you doing, Mulch?" she asked, amazed by the readings the computer was displaying. "The computer says you came all the way down here in first gear."

"There are gears?" said the dwarf. "I thought this crate was automatic."

"Some jockeys prefer gears. Old-fashioned, I know, but more control around the bends. And another thing, you didn’t have to do that gas thing on the rope. There are plenty of stun grenades in the weapons locker."

"This thing has a locker too? Gears and lockers. Well, I never."

Butler was giving Artemis a field physical.

"You seem all right," he said, placing a massive palm over Artemis’s chest. "Holly fixed up your ribs, I see."

Artemis was in a bit of a daze. Now that he was out of immediate danger, the day’s events were catching up to him. How many times could one person cheat death in twenty-four hours? Surely his odds were getting shorter.

"Tell me, Butler," he whispered so the others wouldn’t hear, "is it all true? Or is it a hallucination?" Even as the words left his lips, Artemis realized that it was an impossible question. If this was all a hallucination, then his bodyguard was a dream, too.

"I turned down gold, Butler," continued Artemis, still unable to accept his own grand gesture. "Me. I turned down gold."

Butler smiled, much more the smile of a friend than a bodyguard. "That doesn’t surprise me one bit. You were becoming quite charitable before the mind wipe."

Artemis frowned. "Of course you would say that, if you were part of the hallucination."

Mulch was eavesdropping on the conversation and couldn’t resist a comment. "Didn’t you smell what I shot those trolls with? You think you could hallucinate that, Mud Boy?"

Holly started the engines. "Hold on back there," she called over her shoulder. "It’s time to go. The sensors picked up some shuttles sweeping local chutes. The authorities are looking for us. I need to get us somewhere off the charts."

Holly teased the throttle and lifted them smoothly from the ground. If the shuttle had not had portholes, the passengers might not have noticed the takeoff.

Butler elbowed Mulch. "Did you see that? That’s a takeoff. I hope you learned something."

The dwarf was highly offended. "What do I have to do to get a bit of respect around here? You are all alive because of me, and all I get is abuse."

Butler laughed. "Okay, little friend. I apologize. We owe you our lives, and I, for one, will never forget it."

Artemis followed this interaction curiously. "I would deduce that you remember everything, Butler. If, for a moment, I accept this situation as reality, then your memory must have been stimulated. Did I, perhaps, leave something behind?"

Butler pulled the laser disk from his pocket. "Oh yes, Artemis. There was a message on this disk for me. You left yourself a message, too."

Artemis took the disk. "At last," he said. "Some intelligent conversation."

* * *


Artemis found a small bathroom at the rear of the shuttle. The in-door toilet itself was only to be used in an emergency, and the seat was made from a spongy material which Mulch had assured him would break down any waste as it passed through. Artemis decided he would test the filter at another time, and sat on a small ledge by the porthole.

There was a plasma screen on the wall, presumably for in-restroom entertainment. All he had to do was slip the computer disk into the drive below the screen, and his fairy memories would be returned to him. A whole new world. An old one.

Artemis spun the disk between his thumb and forefinger. Psychologically speaking, if he loaded this disk it meant that some part of him accepted the truth of all this. Putting the disk in the slot could plunge him deeper into some kind of psychotic episode. Not putting it in could condemn the world to a war between species. The fairy and human worlds would collide.

What would father do? Artemis asked himself.

He loaded the disk.

Two files appeared on the desktop, marked with animated 3-D GIFs, something the fairy system had obviously added on. Both were tagged with the file names in English and the fairy language. Artemis selected his own file by touching the plasma screen’s transparent covering. The file glowed orange, then expanded to fill the screen. Artemis saw himself in Fowl Manor, sitting at his desk in the study.

"Greetings," said the screen Artemis. "How nice for you to see me. Doubtless, this will be the first intelligent conversation you have had for some time."

The real Artemis smiled. "Correct," he replied.

"I paused for a second there," continued the screen Artemis. "To give you a chance to respond, thus qualifying this as a conversation. There will be no more pausing, as time is limited. Captain Holly Short is downstairs being distracted by Juliet, but doubtless she will check on me soon. We depart for Chicago presently to deal with Mr. Jon Spiro, who has stolen something from me. The price of fairy assistance in this matter is a mind wipe. All memories of the People will be erased forever, unless I leave a message for my future self, thus prompting recall. This is that message. The following video footage contains specific details of my involvement with the Fairy People. I hope this information will get those brain cell pathways sparking again."

Artemis rubbed his forehead. The vague mysterious flashes persisted. It seemed as though his brain was ready to rebuild those pathways. All he needed was the right stimulus.

"In conclusion," said the screen Artemis. "I would like to wish you, myself, the best of luck. And welcome back."

The next hour passed in a blur. Images flashed from the screen, adhering to empty spaces in Artemis’s brain. Each memory felt right the instant Artemis processed it.

Of course, he thought. This explains everything. I had the mirrored contact lenses made so I could lie to the fairies and hide the existence of this journal. I fixed Mulch Diggums’s search warrant so that he could return the disk to me. Butler looks older because he is older; the fairy healing in London saved his life, but cost him fifteen years.

The memories were not all proud ones. I kidnapped Captain Short. I imprisoned Holly. How could I have done that?

He could not deny it any longer. This was all true. Everything that his eyes had seen was real. The fairies existed and his life had been intertwined with theirs for more than two years. A million images sprouted in his consciousness, rebuilding electric bridges in his brain. They strobed behind his eyes in a confusing display of color and wonder. A lesser mind than Artemis’s could have been utterly exhausted, but the Irish boy was exhilarated.

I know it all now, he thought. I beat Koboi before, and I will do it again. This determination was fueled by sadness. Commander Root is gone. Koboi took him from his People.

Artemis had known this earlier, but now it meant something.

There was one other thought, more persistent than the rest. It crashed into his mind like a tsunami.

I have friends? thought Artemis Fowl the Second. I have friends.

Artemis emerged from the bathroom a different person. Physically, he was still battered, bruised, and exhausted, but emotionally he felt prepared for everything that lay ahead. If a body language analyst had studied him at that moment, they would have observed his relaxed shoulders and open palms, and would have concluded that this was, psychologically speaking, a more welcoming and trustworthy individual than the one who had entered the bathroom an hour since.

The shuttle was parked in a secondary chute off the beaten track, and the occupants were at the mess table. A selection of LEP field ration packs had been torn open and devoured. The biggest pile of foil packs was stacked in front of Mulch Diggums.

Mulch glanced at Artemis and noticed the change immediately. "About time you got your head in order," grunted Mulch, struggling from his chair. "I need to get into that bathroom urgently."

"Nice to see you too, Mulch," said Artemis, stepping aside to allow the dwarf past.

Holly froze, a sachet of juice halfway to her mouth. "You remember him?"

Artemis smiled. "Of course, Holly. We have known each other for more than two years."

Holly jumped from her chair and clasped Artemis by the shoulders. "Artemis. It’s great to see you. The real you. The gods know we need Artemis Fowl right now."

"Well, he’s here and ready for duty, Captain."

"Do you remember everything?"

"Yes. I do. And first of all, let me apologize for that consultant business. That was very rude. Please forgive me."

"But what made you remember?" asked the elf. "Don’t tell me a visit to the bathroom jogged your memory."

"Not exactly." Artemis held up the computer disk. "I gave this to Mulch. It is my video diary. He was supposed to return it to me upon his release from prison."

Holly shook her head. "That’s not possible. Mulch was searched by experts. The only thing you gave him was the gold medallion."

Artemis angled the disk so it caught the light.

"Of course," groaned Holly, slapping her forehead. "You passed off that disk as the gold medallion. Very clever."

Artemis shrugged. "Genius, actually. It seems merely clever in hindsight, but the original idea was pure genius."

Holly cocked her head. "Genius. Of course. Believe it or not I actually missed that smug grin."

Artemis took a breath. "I am so sorry about Julius. I know our relationship was a rocky one, but I had nothing but respect and admiration for the commander."

Holly wiped her eyes with the heels of her hands. She said nothing, just nodded. If Artemis needed another reason to go after Opal Koboi, the sight of the elfin captain so disturbed was it.

Butler ate the contents of a field ration pack in one mouthful. "Now that we’re all reacquainted, we should try to track Opal Koboi down. It’s a big world."

Artemis waved his fingers dismissively. "No need. I know exactly where our would-be murderer is. Like all megalomaniacs, she has a tendency to show off." He crossed to a plastic computer keyboard on the wall and called up a map of Europe.

"I see your Gnommish has come back to you," sniffed Holly.

"Of course," said Artemis, enlarging part of the map. "Opal revealed a little bit more of her plan than she knew. She let two words slip, though one would have been sufficient. She said that her human name was to be Belinda Zito. Now, if you wished to lead the humans to the Fairy People, who better to have adopt you than the renowned billionaire environmentalist Giovanni Zito?"

Holly crossed the shuttle deck to the screen. "And where would we find Dr. Zito?"

Artemis tapped a few keys, zooming in on Sicily. "At his world-famous Earth Ranch. Right there in the Messina province," he said.

Mulch stuck his head out of the bathroom. The rest was mercifully hidden behind the door.

"Did I hear you talking about a Mud Man named Zito?"

Holly turned toward the dwarf, then kept right on turning. "Yes. So what? And for heaven’s sake close the door."

Mulch pulled the door so only a crack remained. "I was just watching a bit of human television in here, as you do. Well there’s a Zito person on CNN. Do you think it’s the same person?"

Holly grabbed a remote control from the desktop. "I really hope not," she said. "But I’d bet my life it is."

A group of scientists appeared on the screen. They were gathered in what looked like a prefabricated laboratory, and each wore a white coat. One stood out from the rest. He was in his mid-forties, with tanned skin, strong handsome features, and long, dark hair curling over his collar. He wore rimless glasses and a lab coat. A striped Versace shirt protruded from beneath his white lapels.

"Giovanni Zito," said Artemis.

"It is incredible, really," Zito was telling a reporter in slightly accented English. "We have sent crafts to other planets, and yet we have no idea what lies beneath our feet. Scientists can tell us the chemical makeup of Saturn’s rings, but we don’t honestly know what lies at the center of our own planet."

"But probes have been sent down before," said the reporter, trying to pretend he hadn’t just picked up this knowledge from his earpiece.

"Yes," agreed Zito. "But only to a depth of about nine miles. We need to get through to the outer core itself, almost two thousand miles down. Imagine if the currents of liquid metal in the outer core could be harnessed. There’s enough free energy in that metal to power mankind’s machines forever."

The reporter was skeptical. At least, the real scientist speaking in his earpiece told him to be skeptical. "But this is all speculation, Dr. Zito. Surely a voyage to the center of the earth is nothing but a fantasy? Possible only in the pages of science fiction."

A brief flash of annoyance clouded Giovanni Zito’s features. "This is no fantasy, sir, I assure you. This is no fantastical voyage. We are sending an unmanned probe, bristling with sensors. Whatever is down there. We will find it."

The reporter’s eyes widened in panic as a particularly technical question came over his earpiece. He listened for several seconds, mouthing the words as he heard them.

"Dr. Zito, eh . . . This probe you are sending down, I believe it will be encased in one hundred million tons of molten iron at about five and a half thousand degrees Celsius. Is that correct?"

"Absolutely," confirmed Zito.

The reporter looked relieved. "Yes. I knew that. Anyway, my point is, it would take several years to gather so much iron. So why did you ask us here today?"

Zito clapped his hands excitedly. "This is the wonderful part. As you know the core probe was a long-term project. I had planned to accumulate the iron over the next ten years. But now, laser drilling has revealed a deep orebody of hematite, iron ore, on the bottom edge of the crust right here in Sicily. It’s incredibly rich, perhaps eighty-five percent iron. All we need to do is detonate several charges inside that deposit and we have our molten iron. I have already secured the mining permits from the government."

The reporter asked the next question all on his own. "So, Dr. Zito, when do you detonate?"

Giovanni Zito removed two thick cigars from his lab coat pocket. "We detonate today," he said, passing a cigar to the reporter. "Ten years early. This is a historic moment." Zito opened the office curtains, revealing a fenced-off area of scrubland below the window. A metallic section of piping protruded from the earth in the center of the three-foot-square enclosure. As they watched, a crew of workmen clambered from the piping, moving hurriedly away from the opening. Wisps of gaseous coolant spiraled from the pipe. The men climbed into a golf trolley and exited the compound. They took shelter in a concrete bunker at the perimeter.

"There are several megatons of TNT buried at strategic points inside the orebody," explained Zito. "If this was detonated on the surface, it would cause an earthquake measuring seven on the Richter scale."

The reporter swallowed nervously. "Really?"

Zito laughed. "Don’t worry. The charges are shaped. The blast is focused down and in. The iron will be liquefied and begin its descent to the earth’s core, carrying the probe with it. We will feel nothing."

"Down and in? You’re sure about that?"

"Positive," said Zito. "We are perfectly safe here."

On the wall behind the Italian doctor, a speaker squawked three times. "Dottore Zito," said a gruff voice. "All clear. All clear."

Zito picked a black remote detonator from the desk.

"The time has come," he said dreamily. He looked straight into the camera. "My darling Belinda, this is for you."

Zito pressed the button and waited, wide eyed. The room’s other occupants, the dozen or so scientists and technicians, turned anxiously to various readout panels and monitors.

"We have detonation," announced one.

Sixteen yards belowground, forty-two shaped charges exploded, simultaneously liquefying one hundred and eighteen million tons of iron. The rock content was pulverized and absorbed by the metal. A pillar of smoke blew out of the cylindrical opening, but there was no detectable vibration.

"The probe is functioning at one hundred percent," said a technician.

Zito breathed out. "That was our big worry. Even though the probe is designed for exactly these conditions, the world has never seen this kind of explosion before." He turned to another lab worker. "Any movement?"

The man hesitated before answering. "Yes, Dr. Zito. We have vertical movement. Sixteen feet per second. Exactly as you hypothesized."

Below the earth’s crust, a behemoth of iron and rock began its painstaking descent toward the earth’s core. It chugged and churned, bubbling and hissing, prying apart the mantle below it. Inside the molten mass, a grapefruit-sized probe continued to broadcast data.

Spontaneous euphoria erupted in the laboratory. Men and women hugged each other. Cigars were lit and champagne corks popped. Someone even pulled out a violin.

"We are on our way," shouted a jubilant Zito, lighting the reporter’s cigar. "Man is going to the center of the earth. Look out below!"

In the stolen LEP shuttle, Holly froze the picture. Zito’s triumphant features were spread across the screen.

"Look out below," she repeated glumly. "Man is coming to the center of the earth."

* * *


The moods in the shuttle ranged from glum to desolate. Holly was taking it especially hard. The entire fairy civilization was under threat yet again, and this time Commander Root wasn’t around to meet the challenge. Not only that, but since the LEP pursuit pods had blown out their communications, there was no way to warn Foaly about the probe.

"I have no doubt he already knows," said Artemis. "That centaur monitors all the human news channels."

"But he doesn’t know that Opal Koboi is giving Zito the benefit of her fairy knowledge." She pointed at Giovanni’s image on the screen. "Look at his eyes. The poor man has been mesmerized so many times that his pupils are actually ragged."

Artemis stroked his chin thoughtfully. "If I know Foaly, he’s been monitoring this project since its initiation. He probably already has a contingency plan."

"I’m sure he has. A contingency plan for a crackpot scheme in ten years’ time that will probably never work."

"Of course," agreed Artemis. "As opposed to a scientifically viable scheme, right now, that has every chance of succeeding."

Holly headed for the cockpit. "I have to turn myself in, even if I am a murder suspect. There is more at stake here than my future."

"Steady on," objected Mulch. "I broke out of prison for you. I have no desire to be shoved back in again."

Artemis stepped in front of her. "Wait a minute, Holly. Think about what will happen if you do turn yourself in."

"Artemis is right," added Butler. "You should think about this. If the LEP is anything like human police forces, fugitives are not exactly welcomed with open arms. Open cell doors, maybe."

Holly forced herself to stop and think, but it was difficult. Every second she waited was another second for the giant iron slug to eat its way through the mantle.

"If I give myself up to Internal Affairs, I will be taken into custody. As an LEP officer, I can be held for seventy-two hours without counsel. As a murder suspect I can be held for up to a week. Even if someone did believe that I was completely innocent, and that Opal Koboi was behind all this, it would still take at least eight hours to get clearance for an operation. But in all likelihood, my claims would be dismissed as the standard protests of the guilty. Especially with you three backing up my story. No offense."

"None taken," said Mulch.

Holly sat down, cradling her head in her hands. "My world is utterly gone. I keep thinking there will be a way back, but things just keep spinning farther and farther out of control."

Artemis placed a hand on her shoulder. "Courage, Captain. Ask yourself, what would the commander do?"

Holly took three deep breaths, then sprang from her seat, back stiff with determination. "Don’t you try to manipulate me, Artemis Fowl. I make my own decisions. Even so, Julius would take care of Opal Koboi himself. So that’s what we’re going to do."

"Excellent," said Artemis. "In that case, we will need a strategy."

"Right. I’ll fly the shuttle; you put that brain of yours to work and come up with a plan."

"Each to his own," said the boy. He sat in one of the shuttle’s chairs, gently massaged his temples with his fingertips, and began to think.





CHAPTER 9

DADDY’S GIRL





The Zito Earth Farm; The Messina Province, Sicily

Opal’s plan to bring the human and fairy worlds together was one of simplicity in its execution, but genius in its conception. She simply had made it easier for a human to do what he was already thinking of doing. Almost every major energy company in the world had a core probe file, but their ideas were all hypothetical, considering the amount of explosives needed to blast through the crust, and the iron necessary to get the probe through the mantle.

Opal picked Giovanni Zito from her list of prospective puppets because of two things: Zito had a large fortune, and land directly above a huge high-grade hematite orebody.

Giovanni Zito was a Sicilian engineer and a pioneer in the field of alternative power sources. A committed environmentalist, Zito developed ways of generating electricity without stripping the land or destroying the environment. The invention that had made his fortune was the Zito solar-mill. A windmill with solar panels for blades, making it many times more efficient than conventional mills.

Six weeks earlier, Zito had returned from an environmental summit in Geneva, where he had delivered the keynote address to ministers of the European Union. By the time he reached his villa on the shores of the Strait of Messina, the sunset was dropping orange blobs in the water, and Giovanni was exhausted. Talking to politicians was difficult. Even the ones who were genuinely interested in the environment were hamstrung by the ones in the pockets of big business. The polluticians, as the media had nicknamed them.

Giovanni ran himself a bath. The water was heated by solar panels on his roof. In fact, the entire villa was self-sufficient when it came to power. There was enough juice in the solar batteries to keep the house hot and lit for six months. All with zero emissions.

After his bath, Zito wrapped himself in a dressing gown and poured a glass of Bordeaux, settling into his favorite armchair.

Giovanni took a long draft of wine, willing the day’s tension to evaporate. He cast his eyes over the familiar row of framed photographs on his wall. Most were magazine covers celebrating his technological innovations, but his favorite one, the one that made him famous, was the Time magazine cover that showed a younger Giovanni Zito astride a humpback whale, with a whaling ship looming over them both. The unfortunate creature had strayed into shallow waters and could not dive. So Zito had leaped from a conservationists’ dinghy onto the creature’s back, thus shielding it from the whalers’ harpoons. Someone on the dinghy had snapped a photo, and that photo had become one of the most famous media images of the last century.

Zito smiled. Heady days. He was about to close his eyes for a quick nap before dinner, when something moved in the shadows in the corner of the room. Something small, barely the height of the table.

Zito sat straight up in his chair. "What’s that? Is somebody there?"

A lamp flicked on to reveal a small girl perched on a log stool. She held the lamp cord in her hand and seemed not in the least afraid or upset in any way. In fact the girl was calm and composed, regarding Zito as if he were the intruder.

Giovanni stood. "Who are you, little one? Why are you here?"

The girl fixed him with the most incredible eyes. Deep brown eyes. Deep as a vat of chocolate.

"I am here for you, Giovanni," she said in a voice as beautiful as her eyes. In fact, everything about the girl was beautiful. Her porcelain features. And those eyes. They would not let him go.

Zito fought her spell. "For me? What do you mean? Is your mother nearby?"

The girl smiled. "Not nearby, no. You are my family now."

Giovanni tried to make sense of this simple sentence, but he could not. Was it really important? Those eyes, and that voice. So melodic. Layers of crystal tinkling.

Humans react differently to the fairy mesmer. Most fall immediately under its hypnotic spell, but there are those with strong minds who need to be pushed a little. And the more they are pushed, the greater the risk of brain damage.

"I am your family now?" said Zito slowly, as though he were searching each word for meaning.

"Yes, human," snapped Opal impatiently, pushing harder. "My family. I am your daughter, Belinda. You adopted me last month, secretly. The papers are in your bureau."

Giovanni’s eyes lost their focus. "Adopted? Bureau?"

Opal drummed her tiny fingers on the base of the lamp. She had forgotten how dull some humans could be, especially under the mesmer. And this one was supposed to be a genius.

"Yes. Adopted. Bureau. You love me more than life, remember? You would do absolutely anything for your darling Belinda."

A tear pooled on Zito’s eyelid. "Belinda. My little girl. I’d do anything for you, dear, anything."

"Yes, yes, yes," said Opal impatiently. "Of course. I said that. Just because you’re mesmerized doesn’t mean you have to repeat everything I say. That is so tiresome."

Zito noticed two small creatures in the corner. Creatures with pointed ears. This fact penetrated the mesmer’s fugue.

"I see. Over there. Are they human?"

Opal glowered at the Brill brothers. They were supposed to stay out of sight. Mesmerizing a strong mind such as Zito’s was a delicate enough operation without distractions.

She added another layer to her voice. "You cannot see those figures. You will never see them again."

Zito was relieved. "Of course. Good. Nothing at all. Mind playing tricks."

Opal scowled. What was it about humans and grammar? At the first sign of stress, it went out the window. Mind playing tricks. Really.

"Now, Giovanni, Daddy. I think we need to talk about your next project."

"The water-powered car?"

"No, idiot. Not the water-powered car. The core probe.

I know you have designed one. Quite a good design for a human, though I will be making changes."

"The core probe. Impossible. Can’t get through crust. Don’t have enough iron."

"We can’t get through the crust. We don’t have enough iron. Speak properly, for heaven’s sake. It’s trying enough speaking Mud Man without listening to your gibberish. Honestly, you human geniuses are not all you’re cracked up to be."

Zito’s beleaguered brain made the effort. "I am sorry, dearest Belinda. I simply mean that the core probe project is long term. It will have to wait until we can find a practical way to gather the iron, and cut through the earth’s crust."

Opal looked at the dazed Sicilian. "Poor dear stupid Daddy. You developed a super laser to cut through the crust. Don’t you remember?"

A dewdrop of sweat rolled down Zito’s cheek. "A super laser? Now that you mention it . . ."

"And can you guess what you’ll find when you do cut through?"

Zito could guess. Part of his intellect was still his own. "A hematite orebody? It would have to be massive. Of very high grade."

Opal led him to the window. In the distance, the wind farm’s blades flashed in the starlight.

"And where do you think we should dig?"

"I think we should dig under the wind farm," said Zito, resting his forehead against the cool glass.

"Very good, Daddy. If you dig there I will be ever so happy."

Zito patted the pixie’s hair. "Ever so happy," he said sleepily. "Belinda, my little girl. Papers are in bureau."

"The papers are in the bureau," corrected Opal. "If you persist with this baby talk I will have to punish you."

She wasn’t joking.

E7, Below the Mediterranean

Holly had to stay out of the major chutes on her way to the surface. Foaly had sensors monitoring all traffic through commercial and LEP routes. This meant navigating unlit meandering secondary chutes, but the alternative was being picked up by the centaur’s bugs and hauled back to Police Plaza before the job was done.

Holly negotiated stalactites the size of skyscrapers, and skirted vast craters teeming with bioluminescent insect life. But instinct was doing the driving. Holly’s thoughts were a thousand miles away, reflecting on the events of the past twenty-four hours. It seemed as though her heart was finally catching up with her body.

All her previous adventures with Artemis were almost like comic book escapades compared to their current situation. It had always been happy ever after before. There had been a few close calls, but everyone had made it out alive. Holly studied her trigger finger. A faint scar circled the base where it had been severed during the Arctic incident. She could have healed the scar or covered it with a ring, but she preferred to keep it where she could see it. The scar was part of her. The commander had been a part of her too. Her superior, her friend.

Sadness emptied her out, then filled her up again. For a while, thoughts of revenge had fueled her. But now, even the thoughts of dumping Opal Koboi into a cold cell could not light a spark of vengeful joy in her heart. She would keep going to ensure that the People were safe from humans. Maybe when that task was done, it would be time to take a look at her life. Maybe there were a few things that needed changing.

Artemis summoned everyone to the passenger area as soon as he had finished work on the computer. His new-old memories were giving him immense pleasure. As his fingers skimmed the Gnommish keyboard, he marveled at the ease with which he navigated the fairy platform. He marveled too at the technology itself, even though he was no stranger to it anymore. The Irish boy felt the same thrill of rediscovery that a small child feels when he has chanced upon a lost favorite toy.

For the past hour, rediscovery had been a major theme in his life. Having a major theme for an hour doesn’t seem like much, but Artemis had a catalog of memories all clamoring to be acknowledged. The memories themselves were startling enough: boarding a radioactive train near Murmansk, or flying across the ocean concealed beneath LEP cam-foil. But it was the cumulative effect of these memories that interested Artemis. He could literally feel himself becoming a different person. Not exactly the way he used to be, but closer to that individual. Before the fairies had mind-wiped him as part of the Jon Spiro deal, his personality had been undergoing what could be seen as positive change. So much so that he had decided to go completely legitimate and donate ninety percent of Spiro’s massive fortune to Amnesty International. Since his mind wipe, he had reverted to his old ways, indulging his passion for criminal acts. Now he was somewhere in the middle. He had no desire to hurt or steal from the innocent, but he was having difficulty giving up his criminal ways. Some people just needed to be stolen from.

Perhaps the biggest surprise was the desire he felt to help his fairy friends, and the real sadness he felt at the loss of Julius Root. Artemis was no stranger to loss; at one time or another, he had lost and found everyone close to him. Julius’s death cut him just as deeply as any of these. His drive to avenge the commander and stop Opal Koboi was more powerful than any criminal urge he had ever felt.

Artemis smiled to himself. It seemed as though good was a more powerful motivation than bad. Who would have thought it?

The rest of the group gathered around the central holographic projector. Holly had parked the shuttle on the floor of a secondary chute close to the surface.

Butler was forced to squat on his hunkers in the fairy-sized ship.

"Well, Artemis, what did you find out?" asked the bodyguard, trying to fold his massive arms without knocking someone smaller over.

Artemis activated a holographic animation, which rotated slowly in the middle of the chamber. The animation showed a cutaway of the earth from crust to core. Artemis switched on a laser pointer and began his briefing.

"As you can see, there is a distance of approximately one thousand eight hundred miles from the earth’s surface to the outer core."

The projection’s liquid outer core swirled and bubbled with molten magma.

"However, mankind has never managed to penetrate more than nine miles through the crust. To go any deeper would necessitate the use of nuclear warheads, or huge amounts of dynamite. An explosion of this magnitude could possibly generate huge shifts in the earth’s tectonic plates, causing earthquakes and tidal waves around the globe."

Mulch was, as usual, eating something. Nobody knew what, as he had emptied the food locker over an hour since. Nobody really wanted to ask either. "That doesn’t sound like a good thing."

"No, it isn’t," agreed Artemis. "Which is why the ironclad probe theory has never been put into practice, until now. The original idea belongs to a New Zealander, Professor David Stevenson. It is quite brilliant, actually, if impractical. Encase a reinforced probe in a hundred million tons of molten iron. The iron will sink through the crack generated by the explosive, even closing the crack behind it. Within a week the probe will reach the core. The iron will be consumed by the outer core, and the probe will gradually disintegrate. The entire process is even environmentally sound."

The projection put Artemis’s words into pictures.

"How come the iron doesn’t un-melt?" asked Mulch.

Artemis raised a long thin eyebrow. "Un-melt? The orebody’s sheer size stops it from solidifying."

Holly stood, stepping into the projection itself and studying the orebody. "Foaly must know all about this. Humans couldn’t keep something so big a secret."

"Indeed," said Artemis, opening a second holographic projection. "I ran a search on the onboard database and found this: Foaly ran several computer simulations over eighty years ago. He concluded that the best way to deal with the threat was to simply broadcast misinformation to whatever probe was being sent down. As far as the humans were concerned, their probe would simply sink through a couple hundred miles of various low-grade ore, and then the orebody would solidify. A resounding and very expensive failure."

The computer simulation showed the information being broadcasted from Haven to the metal-encased probe. Aboveground, cartoon human scientists scratched their heads and tore up their notes.

"Most amusing," said Artemis.

Butler was studying the hologram. "I’ve been on enough campaigns to know that there is a big hole in that strategy, Artemis," he said.

"Yes?"

Butler struggled to his knees and traced the probe’s path with a finger. "Well, what if the probe’s journey brought it into contact with one of the People’s chutes? Once that metal punctures that chute, it’s on an express ride to Haven."

Artemis was delighted at his bodyguard’s astuteness. "Yes. Of course. Which is why there is a supersonic attack shuttle on standby twenty-four hours a day, to divert the molten mass if the need arises. All human probe projects are monitored, and if any are judged to pose a threat, they are quietly sabotaged. If that doesn’t work, the LEP geological unit drills in under the molten mass and diverts it with some shaped charges. The orebody follows the new path blown for it, and Haven is safe. Of course, the mining shuttle has never been used."

"There’s another problem," added Holly. "We have to factor in Opal’s involvement. She obviously has helped Giovanni Zito drill through the crust, possibly with a fairy laser. We can presume she has upgraded the probe itself so that Foaly’s false signals will not be accepted. So her plan must be to bring that probe into contact with the People. But how?"

Artemis launched a third holographic animation, shutting down the first two. This 3-D rendering portrayed Zito’s Earth Farm and the underlying crust and mantle.

"This is what I think," he said. "Zito, with Opal’s help, liquefies his orebody here. It begins to sink at a rate of sixteen feet per second toward the earth’s core, taking accurate readings, thanks to Koboi’s upgrades. Meanwhile, Foaly thinks his plan is working perfectly. Now, at a depth of one hundred and six miles, the metal mass comes within three miles of this major chute, E7, which emerges in southern Italy. They run parallel for one hundred and eighty-six miles, then diverge again. If Opal were to blow a crack between these two tunnels, the iron would follow the path of least resistance and flow into the chute."

Holly felt the strength leave her limbs. "Into the chute, and straight down to Haven."

"Exactly," said Artemis. "This particular chute runs in a jagged westerly diagonal for twelve hundred miles, coming within five hundred yards of the city itself. With the speed the orebody will build up in free fall, it will slice off a good half of the city. Everything that’s left will be broadcasting signals for the world to hear."

"But we have blast walls," objected Holly.

Artemis shrugged. "Holly, there isn’t a force on earth powerful enough to stop a hundred million tons of molten hematite in free fall. Anything that gets in the way will be obliterated. Most of the iron will curve around and follow the tunnel, but enough will continue straight down to cut right through the blast walls."

The shuttle’s occupants watched Artemis’s computer simulation in which the molten orebody smashed through Haven City’s defenses, allowing all the fairy electronic signals to be picked up by the probe.

"We are looking at a fifty-eight percent casualty rate," said Artemis. "Possibly more."

"How can Opal do this without Foaly’s sensors picking her up?"

"Simple," replied Artemis. "She merely plants a shaped charge in E7 at a depth of one hundred and five miles, detonating it at the last minute. That way, by the time Foaly detects the explosion, it will be too late to either disarm it or do anything about it."

"So we need to remove that charge."

Artemis smiled. If only it were that simple. "Opal will not take any chances with the charge. If she left it on the chute wall for any amount of time, a tremor could shake it free, or one of Foaly’s sensors could pick it up. I’m sure the device is well shielded, but one leak in the plating could have it broadcasting like a satellite. No, Opal will not position the charge until the last minute."

Holly nodded. "Okay. So we wait until she plants it, then we disarm it."

"No. If we wait in the chute, then Foaly will pick us up. If that happens, Opal will not even venture down the chute."

"That’s good, isn’t it?"

"Not really. We may delay her for a few hours, but remember, Opal has a two-hundred-mile window to plant the charge. She can wait for the LEP to arrest us and still have ample time to complete her mission."

Holly knuckled her eyes. "I don’t understand this. Surely everyone must know by now that Opal has escaped. Surely Foaly can put this all together."

Artemis closed his fist. "There’s the rub. That single point is the essence of this entire situation. Foaly obviously doesn’t know that Opal has escaped. She would be the first person checked after the goblin general’s escape."

"She was checked. I was there. When Scalene escaped, Opal was still catatonic. There’s no way she could have planned it."

"And yet, she did," mused Artemis. "Could that Opal have been a double?"

"Not possible. They run DNA checks every day."

"So the Opal under surveillance had Koboi’s DNA, but little or no brain activity."

"Exactly. She’s been that way for a year."

Artemis thought silently for over a minute. "I wonder how far cloning technology has developed underground?"

He crossed briskly to the main computer terminal and called up LEP files on the subject.

"‘The mature clone is identical to the original in every way, except that its brain functions are limited to life support,’" he read. "‘In greenhouse conditions, it takes one to two years to grow a clone to adulthood.’" Artemis stepped away from the computer, clapping his hands. "That’s it. That’s how she did it. She induced that coma so that her replacement would not be noticed. This is impressive stuff."

Holly pounded a fist into her palm. "So even if we did survive the attempts on our lives, all talk of Opal’s escape would be seen as the ravings of the guilty."

"I told Chix Verbil that Opal was back," said Mulch. "That’s okay though, because he already thinks I’m raving."

"With Opal on the loose," continued the Irish youth, "the entire LEP would be on the lookout for a plot of some kind. But with Opal still deep in her coma . . ."

"There is no cause for alarm. And this probe is simply a surprise, and not an emergency."

Artemis shut down the holographic projection. "So we’re on our own. We need to steal that final charge and detonate harmlessly above the parallel stretch. Not only that, but we need to expose Opal so she cannot simply put her plan into action all over again. Obviously to do this we need to find Opal’s shuttle."

Mulch was suddenly uncomfortable. "You’re going after Koboi? Again? Well, best of luck. You can just drop me off at the next corner."

Holly ignored him. "How long do we have?"

There was a calculator on the plasma screen, but Artemis didn’t need it. "The orebody is sinking at a rate of sixteen feet per second. That’s eleven miles per hour. At that speed it would take approximately nine and a half hours to reach the parallel stretch."

"Nine hours from now?"

"No," corrected Artemis. "From detonation, which was almost two hours ago."

Holly walked rapidly into the cockpit and strapped herself into the pilot’s chair. "Seven and a half hours to save the world. Isn’t there some law that says we get at least twenty-four?"

Artemis strapped himself into the copilot’s chair. "I don’t think Opal bothers with laws," he said. "Now, can you talk while you fly? There are a few things I need to know about shuttles and charges."





CHAPTER 10

HORSE SENSE





Police Plaza, Haven City, The Lower Elements

Everybody in Police Plaza was all talk about the Zito probe. In truth it was a bit of a distraction from recent events. The LEP didn’t lose many officers in the field. And now two in the same shift. Foaly was taking it hard, especially the loss of Holly Short. It was one thing to lose a friend in the line of duty, but for that friend to be falsely accused of murder was unbearable. Foaly could not stand the idea that the People would forever remember Holly as a cold-blooded killer. Captain Short was innocent. What’s more, she was a decorated hero, and deserved to be remembered as such.

A com screen flickered into life on his wall. One of his technical assistants in the outer office appeared. The elf’s pointed ears were quivering with excitement.

"The probe is down to sixty-five miles. I can’t believe the humans have gotten this far."

Foaly opened a screen on his wall. He couldn’t believe it either. In theory, it should have been decades before humans developed a laser sophisticated enough to puncture the crust without frying half a continent. Obviously, Giovanni Zito went right ahead and developed the laser without worrying about Foaly’s projections for his species.

Foaly almost regretted having to shut Zito’s project down. The Sicilian was one of the brightest hopes for the human race. His plan to harness the power of the outer core was a good one, but the cost was fairy exposure, and that was too high a price to pay.

"Keep a close eye on it," he said, trying to sound interested. "Especially when it runs parallel to E7. I don’t anticipate any trouble, but eyes peeled just in case."

"Yes, sir. Oh, and we have Captain Verbil on line two, from the surface."

A tiny spark of interest lit the centaur’s eyes. Verbil? The sprite had allowed Mulch Diggums to steal an LEP shuttle. Mulch escaped a few hours after his friends on the force had been killed. Coincidence? Perhaps. Perhaps not.

Foaly opened a window to the surface. In it he could see Verbil’s chest.

Foaly sighed. "Chix! You’re hovering. Come down where I can see you."

"Sorry," said Chix, alighting on the floor. "I’m a bit emotional. Trouble Kelp gave me a real grilling."

"What do you want, Chix? A hug and a kiss? I have things on my mind here."

Verbil’s wings flared up behind him. It was a real effort to stay on the ground. "I have a message for you, from Mulch Diggums."

Foaly fought the urge to whinny. No doubt Mulch would have some choice words for him.

"Go on, then. Tell me what our foul-mouthed friend thinks of me."

"This is between us, right? I don’t want to be pensioned off on the grounds that I’m unstable."

"Yes, Chix, it’s between us. Everyone has a right to be temporarily unstable. Today of all days."

"It’s ridiculous, really. I don’t believe it for a minute." Chix attempted a confident chuckle.

Foaly snapped. "What’s ridiculous? What don’t you believe? Tell me, Chix, or I’ll reach down this com link and drag it out of you."

"Are we secure?"

"Yes!" the centaur screeched. "We’re secure. Tell me. Give me Mulch’s message."

Chix took a deep breath, saying the words as he let it out. "Opal Koboi is back."

Foaly’s laughter started somewhere around his hooves and grew in volume and intensity until it burst out of his mouth. "Opal is back! Koboi is back! I get it now. Mulch conned you into letting him steal the shuttle. He played on your fear of Opal waking up, and you bought it. Opal is back; don’t make me laugh."

"That’s what he said," Chix mumbled sulkily. "There’s no need to laugh so hard. You’re spitting on the screen. I have feelings, you know."

Foaly’s laughter petered out. It wasn’t real laughter anyway, it was just an outburst of emotion. Mostly sadness, with some frustration mixed in.

"Okay, Chix. It’s not your fault. Mulch has fooled smarter sprites than you."

It took Chix a moment to realize that he was being insulted.

"It could be true," he said, miffed. "You could be wrong. It is possible, you know. Maybe Opal Koboi conned you."

Foaly opened another window on his wall. "No, Verbil, it is not possible. Opal could not be back, because I’m looking at her right now."

Live feed from the Argon Clinic confirmed that Opal was indeed still suspended in her coma harness. She’d had her DNA swab minutes beforehand.

Chix’s petulance crumbled. "I can’t believe it," he muttered. "Mulch seemed so sincere. I actually thought Holly was in danger."

Foaly’s tail twitched. "What? Mulch said Holly was in danger? But Holly is gone. She died."

"Yes," said Chix morosely. "Mulch was shoveling more horse dung, I suppose. No offense."

Of course. Opal would set Holly up to take the blame for Julius. That little cruel touch would be just like Opal. If she wasn’t right there, in her harness. DNA never lies.

Chix rapped the screen surround at his end, to get Foaly’s attention. "Listen, Foaly, remember what you promised. This is between us. No need for anyone else to know I got duped by a dwarf. I’ll end up scraping vole curry off the sidewalk after crunchball matches."

Foaly absently shut the window. "Yes, whatever. Between us. Right."

Opal was still secure. No doubt about it. Surely she couldn’t have escaped. If she had, then maybe this probe was more sinister than it seemed. She couldn’t have escaped. It wasn’t possible.

But Foaly’s paranoid streak couldn’t let it go. Just to be sure, there were a few little tests he could perform. He really should get authorization, but if he was wrong, nobody had to know. And if he was right, nobody would care about a few hours of computer time.

The centaur ran a quick search on the surveillance database and selected the footage from the chute access tunnel where Julius had died. There was something he wanted to check.


Uncharted Chute, Three Miles Below Southern Italy

The stolen shuttle made good time to the surface. Holly flew as fast as she could without burning the gearbox or smashing them into a chute wall. Time may have been of the essence, but the motley crew would be of little use to anyone if they had to be scraped off the wall like so much crunchy pâté.

"These old rigs are mainly for watch changes," explained Holly. "The LEP got this one secondhand at a criminal assets auction. It’s souped up to avoid customs ships. It used to belong to a curry smuggler."

Artemis sniffed. A faint yellow odor still lingered in the cockpit. "Why would anyone smuggle curry?"

"Extra-hot curry is illegal in Haven. Living underground, we have to be careful of emissions, if you catch my drift."

Artemis caught her drift and decided not to pursue the subject.

"We need to locate Opal’s shuttle before we venture aboveground and give our position away."

Holly pulled over next to a small lake of black oil, the shuttle’s downdraft rippling the surface.

"Artemis, I think I mentioned that it’s a stealth shuttle. Nothing can detect her. We don’t have sensors sophisticated enough to spot her. Opal and her pixie sidekicks could be sitting in their craft just around the next bend, and our computers wouldn’t pick them up."

Artemis leaned in over the dashboard readouts. "You’re approaching this the wrong way, Holly. We need to find out where the shuttle is not."

Artemis launched various scans, searching for traces of certain gases within a hundred-mile radius. "I think we can assume that the stealth shuttle is very close to E7, perhaps right at the mouth; but that still leaves us with a lot of ground to cover, especially if our eyes are all we have to rely on."

"That’s what I’ve been saying. But do go on; I’m sure you have a point."

"So I’m using this shuttle’s limited sensor dishes to scan from here right up the chute to the surface and down about thirty miles."

"Scanning for what?" said Holly in exasperation. "A hole in the air?"

Artemis grinned. "Exactly. You see, normal space is made up of various gases: oxygen, hydrogen, and so on, but the stealth shuttle would prevent any of these from being detected inside the ship’s hull. So if we find a small patch of space without the usual ambient gasses . . ."

"Then we’ve found the stealth shuttle," said Holly.

"Exactly."

The computer completed its scan quickly, building an on-screen model of the surrounding area. The gases were displayed in various whirling hues.

Artemis instructed the computer to search for anomalies. It found three: one with an abnormally high saturation of carbon monoxide.

"That’s probably an airport. A lot of exhaust fumes."

The second anomaly was a large area with only trace elements of any gas.

"A vacuum, probably a computer plant," surmised Artemis.

The third anomaly was a small area just outside the lip of E7 that appeared to contain no gas of any kind.

"That’s her. The volume is exactly right. She’s on the north side of the chute entrance."

"Well done," said Holly, punching him lightly on the shoulder. "Let’s get up there."

"You know, of course, that as soon as we put our nose into the main chute system, Foaly will pick us up."

Holly gave the engines a few seconds to warm up. "It’s too late to worry about that. Haven is more than six hundred miles away. By the time anyone gets here, we’ll either be heroes or outlaws."

"We’re already outlaws," said Artemis.

"True," agreed Holly. "But soon we could be outlaws with no one chasing us."

Police Plaza, The Lower Elements

Opal Koboi was back. Could it be possible? The thought niggled at Foaly’s ordered mind, unraveling any chain of thought that he tried to compose. He would not find any peace until he found out for certain. One way or the other.

The first place to check was the video footage from E37. If one began with the assumption that Koboi was indeed alive, then a number of details could be explained. Firstly, the strange haze that had appeared on all the tapes was not simply interference, but manufactured to hide something. The loss of audio signal, too, could have been orchestrated by Koboi to cover whatever had passed between Holly and Julius in the tunnel. And the calamitous explosion could have been Koboi’s doing and not Holly’s. The possibility brought tremendous peace to Foaly, but he contained it. He hadn’t proven anything yet.

Foaly ran the tape through a few filters without result. The strange blurred section refused to be sharpened, cloned, or shifted. That in itself was unusual. If the blurred spot was just computer glitchery, Foaly should have been able to do something about it. But the indistinct patch stood its ground, repelling everything Foaly threw at it.

You may have the hi-tech ground covered, thought the centaur, but what about good old lo-tech?

Foaly zoomed the footage to moments before the explosion. The blurred patch had transferred itself to Julius’s chest, and indeed at times, the commander appeared to be looking at it. Was there an explosive device under there? If so, then it must have been remotely detonated. The jammer signal was probably sent from the same remote. The detonation command would override all other signals, including the jammer. This meant that for perhaps a thousandth of a second before detonation, whatever was on Julius’s chest would become visible. Not long enough for the fairy eye to capture, but a camera would see it just fine.

Foaly fast-forwarded to the explosion and then began to work his way backward, frame by frame. It was agonizing work, watching his friend being reassembled by the reversed film. The centaur tried to ignore it and concentrate on the work. The flames shrank from orange plumes to white shards, eventually containing themselves inside an orange minisun. Then, for a single frame, something appeared. Foaly flicked past it, then returned. There! On Julius’s chest, right where the blur used to be. A device of some kind.

Foaly’s fingers jabbed the enlarge tool. There was a square foot metal panel secured to Julius’s chest with octo-bonds. It had been picked up by the camera for a single frame. Less than one thousandth of a second, which was why it had been missed by the investigators. On the face of the panel was a plasma screen. Someone had been communicating with the commander before he died. That someone had not wanted to be overheard, hence the audio jammer. Unfortunately, the screen was now blank, as the detonation signal which disrupted the jammer would also have disrupted the video.

But I know who it is, thought Foaly. It’s Opal Koboi, back from limbo.

But he needed proof. The centaur’s word was worth about as much to Ark Sool as a dwarf’s denial that he had passed wind.

Foaly glared at the live feed from the Argon Institute. There she was. Opal Koboi, still deep in her coma. Apparently.

How did you do it? Foaly wondered. How could you swap places with another fairy?

Plastic surgery wouldn’t do it. Surgery couldn’t change DNA. Foaly opened a drawer in his desk and pulled out a piece of equipment that resembled two miniature kitchen plungers.

There was only one way to find out what was going on here. He would have to ask Opal directly.

When Foaly arrived at the institute, Dr. Argon was reluctant to allow him into Opal’s room.

"Miss Koboi is in a deep state of catatonia," said the gnome peevishly. "Who knows what effect your devices will have on her psyche. It’s difficult, nigh impossible, to explain to a layfairy what damage intrusive stimuli may have on the recovering mind."

Foaly whinnied. "You had no trouble letting the TV networks in. I suppose they pay better than the LEP. I do hope you are not beginning to view Opal as your personal possession, Doctor. She is a state prisoner, and I can have her moved to a state facility any time I like."

"Maybe just five minutes," said Jerbal Argon, tapping in the door’s security code.

Foaly clopped past him and plonked his briefcase on the table. Opal swung gently in the draft from the doorway. And it did seem to be Opal. Even this close, with every feature in focus, Foaly would have sworn that this was his old adversary. The same Opal who had competed with him for every prize at college. The same Opal who had very nearly succeeded in having him blamed for the goblin uprising.

"Get her down from there," he ordered.

Argon positioned a bunk below the harness, complaining with every step. "I shouldn’t be doing physical labor," he moaned. "It’s my hip. No one knows the pain I’m in. No one. The warlocks can’t do a thing for me."

"Don’t you have staff to do this sort of thing?"

"Normally, yes," said Argon, lowering the harness. "But my janitors are on leave. Both at the same time. Normally I wouldn’t allow it, but good pixie workers are hard to find."

Foaly’s ears pricked up. "Pixies? Your janitors are pixies?"

"Yes. We’re quite proud of them around here, minor celebrities, you know. The pixie twins. And of course they have the highest respect for me."

Foaly’s hands shook as he unpacked his equipment. It all seemed to be coming together. First Chix, then the strange device on Julius’s chest, now pixie janitors who were on leave. He just needed one more piece of the puzzle.

"What is it you have there?" asked Argon anxiously. "Nothing that could cause any damage."

Foaly tilted the unconscious pixie’s head backward. "Don’t worry, Argon. It’s just a Retimager. I’m not going in any farther than the eyeballs."

He held open the pixie’s eyes one at a time, sealing the plunger like cups around the sockets. "Every image is recorded on the retinas. This leaves a trail of microscratches that can be enhanced and read."

"I know what a Retimager is," snapped Argon. "I do read science journals occasionally, you know. So you can tell what the last thing Opal saw was. What good will that do?"

Foaly connected the eyepieces to a wall computer. "We shall see," he said, endeavoring to sound cryptic rather than desperate.

He opened the Retimager’s program on the plasma screen, and two dark images appeared.

"Left and right eyes," explained Foaly, toggling a key until the two images overlapped. The image was obviously a head from a side angle, but it was too dark to identify.

"Ooh, such brilliance," gushed Argon sarcastically. "Shall I call the networks? Or should I just faint in awe?"

Foaly ignored him. "Lighten and enhance," he said to the computer.

A computer-generated paintbrush swabbed the screen, leaving a brighter and sharper picture behind it.

"It’s a pixie," muttered Foaly. "But still not enough detail." He scratched his chin. "Computer, match this picture with patient Koboi, Opal."

A picture of Opal flashed up on a separate window. It resized itself and revolved until the new picture was at the same angle as the original. Red arrows flashed between the pictures, connecting identical points. After a few moments the space between the two pictures was completely blitzed with red lines.

"Are these two pictures of the same person?" asked Foaly.

"Affirmative," said the computer. "Though there is a point zero five percent possibility of error."

Foaly jabbed the PRINT button. "I’ll take those odds."

Argon stepped closer to the screen, as though in a daze. His face was pale, and growing paler as he realized the implications of the picture.

"She saw herself from the side," he whispered. "That means ..."

"There were two Opal Kobois," completed Foaly. "The real one, that you let escape. And this shell here, which can only be ..."

"A clone."

"Precisely," said Foaly, plucking the hard copy from the printer. "She had herself cloned, and then your janitors waltzed her right out of here under your nose."

"Oh dear."

"Oh dear hardly covers it. Maybe now would be a good time to call the networks, or faint in awe."

Argon took the second option, collapsing to the floor in a limp heap. The sudden evaporation of his dreams of fame and fortune was too much to handle all at once.

Foaly stepped over him and galloped all the way to Police Plaza.

E7, Southern Italy

Opal Koboi was having a hard time being patient. She had used up every last drop of her patience in the Argon Clinic. And now she wanted things to happen on her command. Unfortunately, a hundred million tons of hematite will only sink through the earth at sixteen feet per second, and there isn’t a lot anybody can do about it. Opal decided to pass the time by watching Holly Short die. That cretinous captain. Who did she think she was, with her crew cut and cute bow lips? Opal glanced at herself in a reflective surface. Now, there was real beauty. There was a face that deserved its own currency, and it was quite possible that she would soon have it.

"Mervall," she snapped. "Bring me the Eleven Wonders disk. I need something to cheer me up."

"Right away, Miss Koboi," said Merv. "Would you like me to finish preparing the meal first, or bring you the disk directly."

Opal rolled her eyes at her reflection. "What did I just say?"

"You said to bring you the disk."

"So what do you think you should do, my dearest Mervall?"

"I think I should bring you the disk," said Merv.

"Genius, Mervall. Pure genius."

Merv left the shuttle’s kitchenette and ejected a disk from the recorder. The computer would have the film on its hard drive, but Miss Koboi liked to have her personal favorites on disk so she could be cheered up wherever she happened to be. Highlights from the past included her father’s nervous breakdown, the attack on Police Plaza, and Foaly bawling his eyes out in the LEP operation’s booth.

Merv handed the disk to Opal.

"And?" said the tiny pixie.

Merv was stumped for a moment, then he remembered. One of Opal’s new commandments was that the Brill brothers should bow when they approached their leader. He swallowed his pride and bowed low from the waist.

"Better. Now, weren’t you supposed to be preparing dinner?"

Merv retreated, still bowing. There was a lot of pride-swallowing going on around here in the last few hours. Opal was unhappy with the level of service and respect provided by the Brill brothers, and so she had drawn up a list of rules. These directives included the aforementioned bowing, never looking Opal in the eyes, going outside the shuttle to pass wind, and not thinking too loudly within ten feet of their employer.

"Because I know what you are thinking," Opal had said, in a low tremulous voice. "I can see your thoughts swirling around your head. Right now, you’re marveling at how beautiful I am."

"Uncanny," gasped Merv, while traitorously wondering if there was a cuckoo flitting about her head at that very moment. Opal was going seriously off the rails with all this changing her species and world domination. Scant and himself would have deserted her by now, if she hadn’t promised that they could have Barbados when she was Queen of the Earth. That and the fact that if they deserted her now, Opal would add the Brill brothers to her vengeance list.

Merv retreated to the kitchen and continued with his efforts to prepare Miss Koboi’s food without actually touching it. Another new rule. Meanwhile, Scant was in the cargo bay checking the detonator relays on the last two shaped charges. One for the job, and one for backup. The charges were about the size of melons, but would make a much bigger mess if they exploded. He checked that the magnetic relay pods were secure on the casings. The relays were standard mining sparker units that would accept the signal from the remote detonator and send a neutron charge into the bellies of the charges.

Scant winked at his brother through the kitchen doorway.

Merv pursed his lips in silent imitation of a cuckoo. Scant nodded wearily. They were both getting tired of Opal’s outrageous behavior. Only the thought of drinking piña coladas on the beach in Barbados kept them going.

Opal, oblivious to all the discontent in her camp, popped the video disk into the multidrive. To watch one’s enemies die in glorious color and surround sound was surely one of the greatest advantages of technology. Several video windows opened on the screen. Each one represented the view from one of the hemisphere’s cameras.

Opal watched delightedly as Holly and Artemis were driven into the river by a pack of slobbering trolls. She oohed and aahed as they took refuge on the tiny island of corpses. Her tiny heart beat faster as they scaled the temple scaffolding. She was about to instruct Mervall to fetch her some chocolate truffles from the booty box to go with the movie, when the cameras blacked out.

"Mervall," she squealed, wringing her delicate fingers. "Descant! Get in here."

The Brill brothers rushed into the lounge, handguns drawn.

"Yes, Miss Koboi?" said Scant, laying the shaped charges down on a fur-covered lounger.

Opal covered her face. "Don’t look at me!" she ordered.

Scant lowered his eyes. "Sorry. No eye contact. I forgot."

"And stop thinking that."

"Yes, Miss Koboi. Sorry, Miss Koboi." Scant had no idea what he was supposed to be thinking, so he tried to blank out everything.

Opal crossed her arms and tapped her fingers on her forearms until both brothers were bowed before her.

"Something has gone wrong," she said, her voice trembling slightly. "Our Temple of Artemis cameras seem to have malfunctioned."

Merv backed the footage up to the last image. In it the trolls were advancing on Artemis and Holly across the temple roof.

"It looks like they were done for anyway, Miss Koboi."

"Yep," agreed Scant. "No way out of that one."

Opal cleared her throat. "Firstly, yep is not a word, and I will not be spoken to in slang. New rule. Secondly, I assumed that Artemis Fowl was dead once before, and I spent a year in a coma as a result. We must proceed as though Fowl and Short have survived and are on our trail."

"With respect, Miss Koboi," said Merv, directing the words at his own toes. "This is a stealth shuttle; we didn’t leave a trail."

"Moron," said Opal casually. "Our trail is on every television screen aboveground, and doubtless below it. Even if Artemis Fowl were not a genius, he would guess that I am behind the Zito probe. We need to plant the final charge now. How deep is the probe?"

Scant consulted a computer readout. "One hundred miles. We have ninety minutes to go to the optimum blast point."

Opal paced the deck for a few moments. "We have not picked up any communication with Police Plaza, so if they are alive they are alone. Best not to risk it. We will plant the charge now and guard it. Descant, check the casings again. Mervall, run a system’s check on the shuttle. I don’t want a single ion escaping through the hull."

The pixie twins stepped backward, bowing as they went. They would do as they were told, but surely the boss was being a bit paranoid.

"I heard that thought," screeched Opal. "I am not paranoid!"

Merv stepped behind a steel partition to shield his brain waves. Had Miss Koboi really intercepted the thought? Or was it just the paranoia again? After all, paranoid people usually believe that everyone thinks they are paranoid. Merv poked his head out from behind the partition and beamed a thought at Opal, just to be sure.

Holly Short is prettier than you, he thought as loudly as he could. A treasonous thought, to be sure. One Opal could hardly fail to pick up on if she could indeed read minds.

Opal stared at him. "Mervall?"

"Yes, Miss Koboi?"

"You’re looking directly at me. That’s very bad for my skin."

"Sorry, Miss Koboi," said Merv, averting his eyes. His eyes happened to glance through the cockpit windshield, toward the mouth of the chute. He was just in time to see an LEP shuttle rise through the holographic rock outcrop that covered the shuttlebay door. "Em, Miss Koboi, we have a problem." He pointed out the windshield.

The shuttle had risen to thirty feet and was hovering above the Italian landscape, obviously searching for something.

"They’ve found us," said Opal in a horrified whisper. Then she quelled her panic, quickly analyzing the situation.

"That is a transport shuttle, not a pursuit vehicle," she noted, walking quickly into the cockpit, closely followed by the twins. "We must assume that Artemis Fowl and Captain Short are aboard. They have no weapons and only basic scanners. In this poor light we are virtually invisible to the naked eye. They are blind."

"Should we blast them from the skies?" asked the younger Brill brother eagerly. At last some of the action he had been promised.

"No," replied Opal. "A plasma burst would give our position to human and fairy police satellites. We go silent. Turn off everything. Even life support. I don’t know how they got this close, but the only way they’re going to find out our exact location is to run into us. And if that happens, their sad little shuttle will crumple like cardboard."

The Brills obeyed promptly, switching off all of the shuttle’s systems.

"Good," whispered Opal, placing a slim finger over her lips. They watched the shuttle for several minutes until Opal decided to break the silence.

"Whoever is passing wind, please stop it, or I will devise a fitting punishment."

"It wasn’t me," mouthed the Brill brothers simultaneously. Neither was anxious to find out what the fitting punishment for passing wind was.

E7, Ten Minutes Earlier

Holly eased the LEP shuttle through a particularly tricky secondary shaft and into E7. Almost immediately, two red lights began pulsing on the console.

"The clock is ticking," she announced. "We just triggered two of Foaly’s sensors. They’re going to put the shuttle together with the probe and come running."

"How long?" asked Artemis.

Holly calculated in her head. "If they come supersonic in the attack shuttle, less than half an hour."

"Perfect," said Artemis, pleased.

"I’m glad you think so," moaned Mulch. "Supersonic LEP officers are never a welcome sight among burglars. As a general rule we prefer our police officers subsonic."

Holly clamped the shuttle to a rocky outcrop on the chute wall. "Are you backing out, Mulch? Or is just the usual moaning?"

The dwarf rotated his jaw, warming it up for the work ahead. "I think I’m entitled to a little moan. Why do these plans always involve me putting myself in harm’s way, while you three get to wait it out in the shuttle?"

Artemis handed him a cooler sack from the galley. "Because you are the only one who can do this, Mulch. You alone can foil Koboi’s plan."

Mulch was not impressed. "I’m not impressed," he said. "I’d better get a medal for this. Real gold, too. No more gold-plated computer disks."

Holly hustled him to the starboard hatch. "Mulch, if they don’t lock me in prison for the rest of my life, I will start the campaign to give you the biggest medal in the LEP cabinet."

"And amnesty for any past and future crimes?"

Holly opened the hatch. "Past, maybe. Future, not a chance. But no guarantees. I’m not exactly flavor of the month at Police Plaza."

Mulch tucked the sack inside his shirt. "Okay. Possible big medal and probable amnesty. I’ll take it." He put one foot outside onto the flat surface of the rock. Tunnel wind sucked at his leg, threatening to tumble him into the abyss. "We meet back here in twenty minutes."

Artemis handed the dwarf a small walkie-talkie from the LEP locker. "Remember the plan," shouted Artemis over the roar of the wind. "Don’t forget to leave the communicator. Only steal what you are supposed to. Nothing else."

"Nothing else," echoed Mulch, looking none too pleased. After all, who knew what valuables Opal may have lying about up there. "Unless something really jumps out at me."

"Nothing," insisted Artemis. "Now, are you sure you can get in?"

Mulch’s grin revealed rows of rectangular teeth. "I can get in. You just make sure their power is off and they’re looking the other way."

Butler hefted the bag of tricks that he had brought with him from Fowl Manor. "Don’t worry, Mulch. They’ll be looking the other way. I guarantee it."

Police Plaza, The Lower Elements

All the brass were in the Operations Room, watching live television updates on the probe’s progress when Foaly burst in.

"We need to talk," blurted the centaur to the general assembly.

"Quiet," hissed Council Chairman Cahartez. "Have a bowl of curry."

Chairman Cahartez ran a fleet of curry vans in Haven City. Vole curry was his specialty. Obviously he was catering this little viewing session.

Foaly ignored the buffet table. He snatched a remote control from a chair armrest and muted the master volume.

"We have big trouble, ladies and gentlemen. Opal Koboi is loose, and I think she’s behind the Zito probe."

A high-back swivel chair swung around. Ark Sool was lounging in it. "Opal Koboi? Amazing. And she’s doing all this psychically, I suppose."

"No. What are you doing in that chair? That’s the commander’s chair. The real commander, not Internal Affairs."

Sool tapped the golden acorns on his lapel. "I’ve been promoted."

Foaly blanched. "You’re the new Recon commander?"

Sool’s smile could have illuminated a dark room. "Yes. The Council felt that Recon had been getting a bit out of hand lately. They felt, and I must say I agree, that Recon needs a firm hand. Of course I will stay on at Internal Affairs until a suitable replacement can be found."

Foaly scowled. There was no time for this. Not now. He had to get clearance for a supersonic launch immediately.

"Okay, Sool, Commander. I can lodge my objection later. Right now we have an emergency on our hands."

Everyone was listening now. But none with much enthusiasm, except Commander Vinyaya who had always been a staunch supporter of Julius Root, and would certainly have not voted for Sool. Vinyaya was all ears.

"What’s the emergency, Foaly?" she asked.

Foaly slipped a computer disk into the room’s multidrive. "That thing in the Argon Clinic is not Opal Koboi; it’s a clone."

"Evidence?" demanded Sool.

Foaly highlighted a window on the screen. "I scanned her retinas and found that the last image the clone saw was Opal Koboi herself. Obviously during her escape."

Sool was not convinced. "I’ve never trusted your gadgets, Foaly. Your Retimager is not accepted as actual evidence in a courtroom."

"We’re not in a courtroom, Sool," said Foaly through ground teeth. "If we accept that Opal could be loose, then the events of the past twenty-four hours take on a whole new significance. A pattern begins to emerge. Scalene is dead, pixies are missing from the clinic, Julius is murdered, and Holly is blamed. Then within hours of this, a probe is sent down a decade ahead of schedule. Koboi is behind all of this. That probe is on its way here and we’re sitting around watching it on PPTV . . . eating stinking vole curry!"

"I object to the disparaging curry remark," said Cahartez, wounded. "But otherwise I get your point."

Sool jumped from his chair. "What point? Foaly is connecting dots that don’t exist. All he is trying to do is exonerate his late friend, Captain Short."

"Holly may be alive!" snapped Foaly. "And trying to do something about Opal Koboi."

Sool rolled his eyes. "But her vitals flatlined, centaur. We remote-destructed her helmet. I was there, remember?"

A head poked into the room. One of Foaly’s lab apprentices. "I got that case, sir," he panted. "Quick as I could."

"Well done, Roob," said Foaly, snatching the case from the apprentice’s hand. He spun the case around. "I issued Holly and Julius with new suits. Prototypes. They both have bio-sensors and trackers. They are not linked with the LEP mainframe. I never thought to check them earlier. Holly’s helmet may be out of action, but her suit is still functioning."

"What do the suit’s sensors tell us, Foaly?" asked Vinyaya.

Foaly was almost afraid to look. If the suit sensors were flatlining, it would be like losing Holly again. He counted to three, then consulted the small screen in the case. There were two readouts on the screen. One was flat. Julius. But the other was active in all areas.

"Holly is alive!" shouted the centaur, kissing Commander Vinyaya soundly on the cheek. "Alive and reasonably well, apart from elevated blood pressure and next to zero magic in her tank."

"And where is she?" asked Vinyaya, smiling.

Foaly enlarged the locator section of the screen. "On her way up E7, in the shuttle that was stolen by Mulch Diggums, if I’m not mistaken."

Sool was delighted. "Let me get this straight. Murder suspect Holly Short is in a stolen chute next to the Zito probe."

"That’s right."

"That would make her the prime suspect in any irregularities concerning the probe."

Foaly was very tempted to actually trample Sool, but he held his temper in check, for Holly’s sake. "All I’m asking, Sool, is that you give me a green light to send the supersonic shuttle to investigate. If I’m right, then your first act as Commander will be to avert a calamity."

"And if you’re wrong? Which you probably are."

"If I’m wrong, then you get to bring in public enemy number one, Captain Holly Short."

Sool stroked his goatee. It was a win-win situation. "Very well. Send the shuttle. How long will it take to prep?"

Foaly pulled a phone from his pocket and hit a number on the speed dial.

"Major Kelp," he said into the mouthpiece. "Green light. Go." Foaly smiled at Ark Sool. "I briefed Major Kelp on my way over. I felt sure you’d see it my way. Commanders generally do."

Sool scowled. "Don’t get familiar with me, ponyboy. This is not the start of a beautiful relationship. I’m sending the shuttle because it is the only option. If you are somehow manipulating me, or bending the truth, I will bury you in tribunal hearings for the next five years. Then I will fire you."

Foaly ignored him. There would be plenty of time for trading threats later. He needed to concentrate on the shuttle’s progress. He had gone through the shock of Holly’s death once before; he did not intend to go through it again.

E7

Mulch Diggums could have been an athlete. He had the jaw and recycling equipment for sprint digging, or even cross-country. Plenty of natural ability, but no dedication.

He tried it for a couple of months in college, but the strict regime of training and diet did not suit him. Mulch could still remember his college tunneling coach giving him a pep talk after training one night.

"You got the jaw, Diggums," the old dwarf admitted. "And you sure got the behind. I ain’t never seen no one who could pump out the bubbles like you do. But you ain’t got the heart, and that’s what’s important."

Maybe the old dwarf was right: Mulch never did have the heart for selfless activity. Tunneling was a lonely job, and there wasn’t much money in it either. And because it was an ethnic sport, the TV networks were not interested. No advertising meant no big pay deals for the athletes. Mulch decided his digging prowess could be more profitably utilized on the shady side of the law. Maybe if he had some gold, then female dwarfs would be more likely to return his calls.

And now here he was, breaking all his rules, preparing to break into a craft that was bristling with fairy sensors and occupied by armed hostiles. Just to help someone else. Of all the vehicles on the planet or under it, Artemis just had to get into the most technologically advanced shuttle in existence. Every square inch of the stealth shuttle’s plating would be alarmed with lasers, motion sensors, static sheets, and who knew what else. Still, alarms were no good if they weren’t activated, and that was what Mulch was counting on.

Mulch waved good-bye in the general direction of the shuttle, just in case anyone was still watching him, and traversed the rocky outcrop to the safety of the chute wall. Dwarfs do not like heights, and being technically below sea level was not helping his vertigo.

The dwarf sank his fingers into a vein of soft clay sprouting through the rock wall. Home. Anywhere on earth was home to a dwarf, as long as there was clay. Mulch felt calm settle over him. He was safe now, for the time being, at any rate.

The dwarf unhinged his jaw with twin cracks that would make any other sentient species wince. He popped the snaps on his bum-flap and launched himself into the clay. His gnashing teeth scooped buckets of clay from the chute wall, creating an instant tunnel. Mulch crawled into the space, sealing the cavity behind him with recycled clay from his rear end.

After half a dozen mouthfuls, the sonar filaments in his hair detected a shelf of rock ahead, so he adjusted his course accordingly. The stealth shuttle would not be set down on rock because it was top of the range, and as such would have a battery rod. The rods telescoped from the belly of the ship, drilling fifty feet below the ground and recharging the shuttle’s batteries with the power of the earth. The cleanest of energies.

The battery rod vibrated slightly as it harvested, and it was this vibration that Mulch homed in on now. It took him just over five minutes of steady munching to clear the rock shelf and reach the tip of the battery rod. The vibrations had already loosened the earth, and it was a simple matter for Mulch to clear himself a little cave. He spread saliva on the walls and waited.

Holly piloted the LEP craft through the small shuttleport, overriding the shuttle doors with her Recon access code. Police Plaza hadn’t bothered to change her code, because as far as they were concerned, she was dead.

A sheet of black rain clouds was spreading shadows across the Italian countryside as they cleared the holographic outcrop that shielded the shuttleport. A light frost coated the reddish clay, and a southerly wind lifted the shuttle’s tail.

"We can’t stay out here for long," said Holly, throttling back to a hover. "This transporter doesn’t have defenses."

"We won’t need long," said Artemis. "Fly in a grid search pattern, as though we’re not certain where exactly the stealth shuttle is."

Holly punched some coordinates into the flight computer. "You’re the genius."

Artemis turned to Butler, who was cross-legged in the aisle. "Now, old friend, can you make certain that Opal is looking this way?"

"Can do," said Butler, crawling to the port side exit. He knuckled the access button and the door slid back. The shuttle bucked slightly as the cabin pressure equalized, then settled.

Butler opened his bag of weaponry and selected a handful of metal spheres, roughly the size of tennis balls. He flicked back the safety cap on one, then depressed the button below with his thumb. The button began to rise to its original position.

"Ten seconds until the button is flush with the surface. Then it makes a connection."

"Thank you for the lecture," said Artemis dryly. "Though now is hardly the time."

Butler smiled, tossing the metal sphere into the air. Five seconds later it exploded, blowing a small crater in the earth below. Scorch lines emanated from the crater, giving it the appearance of a black flower.

"I bet Opal is looking now," said Butler, priming the next grenade.

"I’m sure others will be looking soon. Explosions don’t tend to go unnoticed for long. We are relatively isolated here. The nearest village is approximately ten miles away. If we are lucky, that gives us a ten-minute window. Next grid square, please, Holly. But not too close; we don’t want to scare them off."

Fifty feet below the ground, Mulch Diggums waited in his little DIY cave, watching the tip of the battery rod. As soon as it stopped vibrating, he began working his way upward through the loose clay. The telescopic rod was warm to the touch, heated by the energy it conducted to the shuttle’s batteries. Mulch used it to help him on his journey, pulling himself upward, hand over hand. The clay he consumed was broken and aerated from the rod’s drilling action, and Mulch was glad for that extra air. He converted it to wind, using it to boost himself upward.

Mulch increased his pace, pumping the air and clay through his recycling passages. Opal would only be distracted by the shuttle for so long before it occurred to her that it was a diversion. The rod thickened as he went along, until he arrived at a rubber seal in the belly of the shuttle itself, which was raised on three retractable legs two feet off the ground. When the shuttle was in flight, this seal would be covered by a metal panel; but the shuttle was not in flight at the moment, and the sensors were turned off.

Mulch climbed from his tunnel and rehinged his jaw. This was precision work and he needed fine control of his teeth. Rubber was not a recommended part of a dwarf’s diet, and so could not be swallowed. Half-digested rubber could seal up his insides as effectively as a barrel of glue.

It was an awkward bite. Difficult to get a grip. Mulch flattened his cheek against the battery rod, worming upward until his incisors could get some purchase on the seal. He bore down on the heavy rubber, rotating his jaw in small circles until his upper tooth broke through. Then he ground his teeth, enlarging the rent until there was a six-inch tear in the rubber. Now Mulch could get one side of his mouth into the gap. He tore off large chunks, careful to spit them out immediately.

In less than a minute Mulch had torn a foot-square hole. Just enough for him to squeeze through. Anyone unfamiliar with dwarfs would have bet money that Mulch would never squeeze his well-fed bulk through such a narrow aperture, but they would have lost their cash. Dwarfs have spent millennia escaping from cave-ins, and have developed the ability to squeeze through tighter holes than this one.

Mulch sucked in his gut and wiggled through the torn seal, headfirst. He was glad to be out of the faint, morning sunlight. Sun was another thing dwarfs did not like. After mere minutes in direct sunlight, a dwarf’s skin would be redder than a boiled lobster’s. He shinned along the battery rod into the shuttle’s engine compartment. Most of the small space was taken up with flat batteries and a hydrogen generator. There was an access hatch overhead that led into the cargo bay. Light ropes ran the length of the compartment, giving off pale green light. Any radiation leak from the generator would show up purple. The reason that the light ropes were still working without power was that illumination was supplied by specially cultivated decaying algae. Not that Mulch knew any of this; he just knew that the light was very similar to the luminescence from dwarf spittle, and the familiarity made him relax. He relaxed a bit too much, as it happened, allowing a small squib of tunnel gas to escape through his bum-flap. Hopefully nobody would notice that. . . .

Maybe half a minute later, he heard Opal’s voice from outside.

"Now, whoever is passing wind, please stop it, or I will devise a fitting punishment."

Oops, thought Mulch guiltily. In dwarf circles it is considered almost criminal to allow someone else to be blamed for your air bubbles. Through sheer force of habit, Mulch almost raised his hand and confessed, but luckily his instinct for self-preservation was stronger than his conscience.

Moments later the signal came. It was hard to miss. The explosion rocked the entire shuttle twenty degrees off center. It was time to make his move and trust Artemis when he said that it was almost impossible not to watch an explosion.

Mulch nudged the hatch open a crack with the crown of his head. The dwarf half expected someone to stamp on the hatch, but the cargo bay was empty. Mulch folded the hatch back and crept all the way into the small chamber. There was a lot here to interest him. Crates of ingots, Perspex boxes of human currency, and antique jewelry hanging from mannequins. Obviously Opal did not intend on being poor in her new role as a human. Mulch snagged a single diamond earring from a nearby bust. So Artemis had told him not to take anything. So what? One earring wouldn’t slow him down.

Mulch popped the pigeon’s egg–size diamond into his mouth and swallowed. He could pass that later when he was on his own. Until then it could lodge in his stomach wall, and it would come out shinier than it went in.

Another explosion bucked the floor beneath his feet, reminding Mulch to move on. He crossed to the bay door, which was slightly ajar. The next chamber was the passenger area, and it was just as plush as Holly had described. Mulch’s lips rippled at the sight of fur-covered chairs. Repulsive. Beyond the passenger area was the cockpit. Opal and her two friends were clearly visible, staring intently out of the front windshield. They were making not a sound, and saying not a word. Just as Artemis had said.

Mulch dropped to his knees and crawled across the lounge’s carpet. He was now completely exposed. If one of the pixies decided to turn around, he would be stranded in the center of the lounge with nothing but a smile to hide behind.

Just keep going and don’t think about that, Mulch told himself. If Opal catches you, pretend you’re lost or have amnesia, or just came out of a coma. Maybe she’ll sympathize, give you some gold, and send you on your way. Yeah, right.

Something creaked slightly beneath Mulch’s knee. The dwarf froze, but the pixies didn’t react to the sound. Presumably that was the lid of the booty box. Opal’s little hidey hole. Mulch crawled around the box. If there was one thing he didn’t need, it was more creaks.

Two shaped charges lay on a chair, level with Mulch’s nose. He couldn’t believe it. Right there, less than a yard away. This was the one part of the plan that relied on luck. If one of the Brill brothers had the charge tucked under his arm or if there were more charges than he could carry, then they would have to ram the shuttle and hope to disable her. But here it was, almost begging to be stolen. When he was committing a robbery, Mulch often gave voices to the objects he was about to steal. This, he knew, would sound a little crazy to the rest of the world, but he spent a lot of time on his own and he needed someone to talk to.

Come on, Mister Handsome Dwarf, said one of the charges in a breathy falsetto. I’m waiting. I don’t like it here, you know. Please rescue me.

Very well, Madame, said Mulch silently, taking the bag from inside his shirt. I’ll take you, but we’re not going very far.

Me, too, said the other charge. I want to go, too.

Don’t worry, ladies. Where you’re going, there’s plenty of room for both of you.

When Mulch Diggums crept out through the torn seal a minute later, the charges were no longer on the chair. In their place was a small handheld communicator.

* * *


The three pixies sat quietly in the stealth shuttle’s cockpit. One was concentrating on the transport craft hovering two hundred yards off their bows. The other two were concentrating on not passing wind, and not thinking about not passing wind.

The transport shuttle’s side entrance opened, and something winked in the morning light as it tumbled earthward. Seconds later the something exploded, rocking the stealth shuttle on its suspension bags.

The Brill brothers gasped, and Opal cuffed them both on the ear.

Opal was not worried. They were searching. Shooting in the dark, or very close to it. Maybe in thirty minutes there would be enough light to see the ship with the naked eye, but until then they were blending very nicely with the surrounding countryside, thanks to a hull made from stealth ore and cam-foil. Fowl must have guessed where they were because of this chute’s proximity to the probe. But all he had was an approximation. Of course it would be delightful to blast them out of the air, but plasma bursts would light up Foaly’s satellite scanners and paint a bull’seye on their hull.

She plucked a digi-pad and pen from the dash and scrawled a message on it.

Stay quiet and calm. Even if one of those charges hits us, it will not penetrate the hull.

Mervall took the pad. Maybe we should leave. Mud Men will be coming.

Opal wrote a response. Dear Mervall, please don’t start thinking; you will hurt your head. We wait until they leave. At this close range, they could actually hear our engines starting.

Another explosion rocked the stealth shuttle. Opal felt a bead of sweat roll down her forehead. This was ridiculous: she didn’t perspire, certainly not in front of the help. In five minutes the humans would come to investigate. It was their nature. So she would wait five minutes, then try to slip past the LEP shuttle, and if she couldn’t slip past, then she would blast them out of the sky and take her chances with the supersonic shuttle that would no doubt come to investigate.

More grenades dropped from the LEP craft, but they were farther away now, and the shock waves barely caused a shudder in the stealth shuttle. This went on for two or three minutes without the remotest danger to Opal or the Brills, then suddenly the transport shuttle sealed its door and peeled off back down the chute.

"Hmm," said Opal. "Surprising."

"Maybe they ran out of ammunition," offered Merv, though he knew that Opal would punish him for offering an opinion.

"Is that what you think, Mervall? They ran out of explosives and so they decided just to let us go? Do you really imagine that to be true, you imbecilic excuse for a sentient being? Don’t you have any frontal lobes?"

"I was just playing devil’s advocate," mumbled Merv weakly.

Opal rose from her seat, waving a hand at each Brill brother. "Just shut up. I need to talk to myself for a minute." She paced the narrow cockpit. "What’s going on here? They track us to the chute, then put on a big fireworks display, then leave. Just like that. Why? Why?"

She rubbed both temples with a knuckle. "Think." Suddenly Opal remembered something. "Last night. A shuttle was stolen in E1. We heard about it on the police band. Who stole it?"

Scant shrugged. "I dunno. Some dwarf. Is it important?"

"That’s right. A dwarf. And wasn’t there a dwarf involved in the Artemis Fowl siege? And weren’t there rumors of the same dwarf helping Julius to break into Koboi labs?"

"Rumors. No actual evidence."

Opal turned on Scant. "Maybe that’s because, unlike you, this dwarf is smart. Maybe he doesn’t want to be caught." The pixie took a moment to connect the dots. "So they have a dwarf burglar, a shuttle, and explosives. Holly must know that those pathetic grenades can’t penetrate our hull, so why drop them? Unless . . ."

The truth hit her like a physical blow in the stomach. "Oh no," she gasped. "Distraction. We sat here like fools watching the pretty lights. And all the time . . ."

She heaved Scant aside, rushing past him to the lounge.

"The charges," she shrieked. "Where are they?"

Scant went straight to the chair. "Don’t worry, Miss Koboi, they’re right—" He stopped, the sentence’s final word stuck in his throat. "I, ah, they were right there. In the chair."

Opal picked up the small handheld radio. "They’re toying with me. Tell me you put the backup somewhere safe."

"No," said Scant miserably. "They were together."

Merv pushed past him into the cargo bay. "The engine compartment is open." He stuck his head through the hatch. His voice wafted up, muffled by the floor panels. "The battery rod seal has been ripped apart. And there are footprints. Someone came through here."

Opal threw back her head and screamed. She held it for a long time for such a small individual.

Finally her breath ran out. "Follow the shuttle," she gasped when her wind returned. "I modified those charges myself and they cannot be disarmed. We can still detonate. At the very least we will destroy my enemies."

"Yes, Miss Koboi," said Merv and Scant together.

"Don’t look at me," howled Opal.

The Brill brothers fled to the cockpit, trying to simultaneously bow, look at their feet, not think anything dangerous, and above all, not pass wind.

* * *


Mulch was waiting at the rendezvous site when the LEP shuttle arrived. Butler opened the door and hauled the dwarf in by the collar.

"Did you get it?" asked Artemis anxiously.

Mulch passed him the bulging bag. "Right here. And before you ask, I left the radio."

"So everything went according to plan?"

"Completely," replied Mulch, neglecting to mention the diamond nestled in his stomach wall.

"Excellent," said Artemis, striding past the dwarf to the cockpit.

"Go," he shouted, thumping Holly’s headrest.

Holly already had the shuttle ticking over, and was holding it with the brake.

"We’re gone," she said, releasing the brake and flooring the throttle. The LEP craft bolted from the rocky outcrop like a pebble from a catapult.

Artemis’s legs were dragged from the floor, flapping behind him like windsocks. The rest of him would have followed if he hadn’t held on to the headrest.

"How much time do we have?" asked Holly, through lips rippled by G-force.

Artemis pulled himself into the passenger seat. "Minutes. The orebody will hit a depth of one hundred and five miles in precisely one quarter of an hour. Opal will be after us any second."

Holly shadowed the chute wall, spinning between two towers of rock. The lower portion of E7 was quite straight, but this stretch corkscrewed through the crust, following the cracks in the plates.

"Is this going to work, Artemis?" said Holly.

Artemis pondered the question. "I considered eight plans, and this was the best one. Even so, we have a sixty-four percent chance of success. The key is to keep Opal distracted so she doesn’t discover the truth. That’s up to you, Holly. Can you do it?"

Holly wrapped her fingers around the wheel. "Don’t worry. It’s not often I get a chance to do some fancy flying. Opal will be so busy trying to catch us that she won’t have time to consider anything else."

Artemis looked out of the windshield. They were pointing straight down toward the center of the earth. Gravity fluctuated at this depth and speed, so they were alternately pinned to their chairs and straining to be free of their seat belts. The chute’s blackness enveloped them like tar, except for the cone of light from the shuttle’s headlamps. Gigantic rock formations darted in and out of the cone heading straight for their nose. Somehow Holly steered them through, without once tapping the brake.

On the plasma dash, the icon representing the gaseous anomaly that was Opal’s ship inched across the screen.

"They’re on to us," said Holly, catching the movement from the corner of one eye.

Artemis’s stomach was knotted from flight nausea, anxiety, fatigue, and exhilaration. "Very well," he said, almost to himself. "The chase is on."

At the mouth of E7, Merv was at the wheel of the stealth shuttle. Scant was on instruments, and Opal was in charge of giving orders and general ranting.

"Do we have a signal from the charge?" she screeched from her chair.

Her voice is really getting annoying, thought Scant, but not too loudly. "No," he replied. "Nothing. Which means it must be in the other shuttle. Their shields must be blocking the charge’s signal. We need to get closer, or I could send the detonation signal anyway; we might get lucky."

Opal’s screech grew more strident. "No! We must not detonate before that shuttle reaches one hundred and five miles. If we do, the orebody will not change course. What about this stupid communicator? Anything from that?"

"Negative," said Scant. "If there’s another one, it must be switched off."

"We could always return to Zito’s compound," said Merv. "We have a dozen more charges there."

Opal leaned forward in her seat, punching Merv’s shoulders with her tiny fists. "Idiot. Moron. Half-wit. Are you in some kind of stupidity competition? Is that it? If we return to Zito’s, the orebody will be too deep by the time we return. Not to mention the fact that Captain Short will present the LEP with her version of events and they will have to investigate, at the very least. We must get closer and we must detonate. Even if we miss the probe window, at least we destroy any witnesses against me."

The stealth shuttle had proximity sensors linked into the navigating software, which meant that Opal and company did not have to worry about colliding with the chute wall or stalactites.

"How long before we’re in detonation range?" Opal barked. To be honest, it was more of a yip.

Merv did some quick calculations. "Three minutes. No more."

"How deep will they be at that point?"

A few more sums. "One hundred and fifty-five miles."

Opal pinched her nose. "It could work. Presuming they have both charges, the resulting explosion, even if not directed as we planned, may be enough to blow a crack in the wall. It’s our only option. If it fails, at least we have time to regroup. As soon as they hit one hundred and five, send the detonate signal. Send it continuously. We may get lucky."

Merv flipped a plastic safety cover off the DETONATE button. Only minutes to go.

Artemis’s insides were trying to force their way out his throat. "This heap needs new gyroscopes," he said.

Holly barely nodded, too busy concentrating on a particularly tricky series of jinks and loops in the chute.

Artemis consulted the dashboard’s readout. "We’re at a depth of one hundred and five now. Opal will be trying to detonate. She’s closing fast."

Mulch stuck his head through from the passenger section. "Is all this jiggling about really necessary? I’ve had a lot to eat recently."

"Nearly there," said Artemis. "The ride is just about over. Tell Butler to open the bag."

"Okay. Are you sure Opal will do what she’s supposed to?"

Artemis smiled reassuringly. "Of course I am. It’s human nature, and Opal is a human now, remember? Now, Holly. Pull over."

Mervall tapped the readout. "You’re not going to believe this, Op . . . Miss Koboi."

The merest hint of a smile flickered across Opal’s lips. "Don’t tell me. They have stopped."

Merv shook his head, astounded. "Yes, they are hovering at one hundred and twenty-five. Why would they do that?"

"There’s no point trying to explain it, Mervall. Just keep sending the detonation signal, but slow us down. I don’t want to be too close when we get a connection."

She drummed her nails on the handheld communicator left behind by the dwarf. Any second now.

A red call light flashed on the communicator, accompanied by a slight vibration. Opal smiled, flipping open the walkie-talkie’s screen.

Artemis’s pale face filled the tiny screen. He was trying to smile, but it was obviously forced. "Opal, I am giving you one chance to surrender. We have disarmed your charges and the LEP is on its way. It would be better for you to turn yourself over to Captain Short than shoot it out with an armed LEP ship."

Opal clapped her hands. "Bravo, Master Fowl, what a wonderful fiction. Now, why don’t I tell you the real truth. You have realized that the charges cannot be disarmed. The mere fact that I can receive your communication’s signal means that my detonation signal will soon penetrate your shields. You cannot simply jettison the explosives, or I will set them off in the chute, exactly as I had originally planned. Then I will simply fire a few heat seekers at your craft. And if you attempt further flight, then I will follow and penetrate your shields before you clear the parallel stretch. You are not in communication with the LEP. If you were, we would have picked up your broadcast. So your only alternative is this pathetic bluff. And it is pathetic. You are obviously attempting to stall me until the orebody passes your depth."

"So you refuse to surrender?"

Opal pretended to think about it, tapping her chin with a manicured nail. "Why, yes. I think I will fight on, against all odds. And by the way, please don’t look directly at the screen: it’s bad for my skin."

Artemis sighed dramatically. "Well, if we have to go, at least we’ll go on full stomachs."

This was an unusually cavalier comment to make with seconds to live, even for a human. "Full stomachs?"

"Yes," said Artemis. "Mulch took something else from your shuttle."

He picked up a small chocolate-covered ball and wiggled it before the screen.

"My truffles?" gasped Opal. "You took them. That’s just mean."

Artemis popped the treat into his mouth and chewed slowly. "They really are divine. I can see why you missed them in the institute. We’re really going to have to work hard to eat all we took before you blow us to smithereens."

Opal hissed, catlike. "Killing you will be so easy." She turned to Merv. "Do we have a signal yet?"

"Nothing, Miss Koboi. But soon. If we have communications, it can’t be long now."

Holly squeezed her head into the viewfinder. One cheek was swollen with truffles. "They really melt in the mouth, Opal. The condemned crew’s final meal."

Opal actually poked the screen with her nail. "You survived twice, Short. You won’t do it again, I guarantee it."

Holly laughed. "You should see Mulch. He’s shoveling those truffles down his gullet."

Opal was livid. "Any signal?" Even now, with certain destruction only moments away, they were still mocking her.

"Not yet. Soon."

"Keep trying. Keep your finger on that button."

Opal unstrapped herself and strode through to the lounge. The dwarf couldn’t have carried all the truffles and the explosives. Surely not. She had been so looking forward to a handful of the heavenly chocolate once Haven was destroyed.

She knelt on the carpet, worming her hand underneath the seam to the hidden catch. It popped beneath her fingers, and the booty box’s lid slid up and back.

There was not a single truffle left in the box. Instead there were two shaped charges. For a moment Opal could not understand what she was seeing. Then it became terrifyingly clear. Artemis had not stolen the charges; he had simply told the dwarf to move them. Once in the booty box they could not be detected or detonated, as long as the lid was sealed. She had opened the box herself. Artemis had goaded her into sealing her own fate.

The blood drained from Opal’s face. "Mervall," she screamed. "The detonation signal!"

"Don’t worry, Miss Koboi," the pixie shouted from the cockpit. "We just got contact. Nothing can stop it now."

Green countdown clocks activated on both charges and began counting back from twenty. A standard mining fuse.

Opal lurched into the cockpit. She had been tricked.

Duped. Now the charges would detonate uselessly at seventy-five miles, well above the parallel stretch. Of course her own shuttle would be destroyed and she would be left stranded, ready to be scooped up by the LEP. At least that was the theory. But Opal Koboi never left herself without options.

She strapped herself into a seat in the cockpit.

"I advise you to strap in," she said curtly to the Brill brothers. "You have failed me. Enjoy prison."

Merv and Scant barely had time to buckle up before Opal activated the ejector gel-pods under their seats. They were immediately immersed in a bubble of amber impact-gel and ejected through panels that had opened in the hull.

The impact-gel bubbles had no power source and relied on the initial gas propulsion to get them out of harm’s way. The gel was fireproof, blast resistant, and contained enough oxygen for thirty minutes of shallow breathing. Merv and Scant were catapulted through black space until they came into contact with the chute wall. The gel stuck to the rocky surface, leaving the Brill brothers stranded thousands of miles from home.

Opal, meanwhile, was rapidly keying codes into the shuttle’s computer. She had less than ten seconds left to complete her final act of aggression. Artemis Fowl may have beaten her this time, but he wouldn’t live to gloat about it.

Opal expertly activated and launched two heat-seeking plasma rockets from the nose tubes, then launched her own escape pod. No plasma-gel for Opal Koboi. She had, of course, included a luxury pod in the ship’s design. Just one, though; no need for the help to travel in comfort. In fact, Opal didn’t care much what happened to the Brill brothers, one way or the other. They were of no further use to her.

She opened the throttles wide, ignoring safety regulations. After all, who cared if she scorched the shuttle’s hull. It was about to get a lot more than just scorched. The pod streaked toward the surface at over five hundred miles per hour. Pretty fast, but not fast enough to completely escape the shock wave from the two shaped charges.

The stealth shuttle exploded in a flash of multicolored light. Holly pulled the LEP shuttle close to the wall to avoid falling debris. After the shock waves had passed, the shuttle’s occupants waited in silence for the computer to run a scan on the stretch of chute above them. Eventually three red dots appeared on the 3-D representation of the chute. Two were static, the other was moving rapidly toward the surface.

"They made it," sighed Artemis. "I have no doubt that the moving dot is Opal. We should pick her up."

"We should," said Holly, not looking as happy as one would expect. "But we won’t."

Artemis picked up on Holly’s tone. "Why not? What’s wrong?"

"That’s wrong," said Holly, pointing to the screen. Two more dots had appeared on the screen and were moving toward them at extreme speed. The computer identified the dots as missiles, and quickly ran a match in its database.

"Heat-seeking plasma rockets. Locked on to our engines."

Mulch shook his head. "That Koboi is a bitter little pixie. She couldn’t let it go."

Artemis stared at the screen as if he could destroy the missiles through concentration. "I should have anticipated this."

Butler poked his massive head past his charge’s shoulders. "Do you have any hot waffle to draw the missiles away?"

"This is a transport shuttle," replied Holly. "We were lucky to have shields."

"The missiles are coming after our heat signature?"

"Yes," said Holly, hoping there was an idea on the way.

"Is there any way to significantly alter that signature?"

An option occurred to Holly then. It was so extreme that she didn’t bother running it past the shuttle’s other occupants.

"There is one way," she said, and turned off the engines.

The shuttle dropped like a rock through the chute. Holly tried to maneuver using the flaps, but without propulsion it was like trying to steer an anchor.

There was no time for fear or panic. There was only time to hang on to something and try to keep her last meal inside her body.

Holly gritted her teeth, swallowing the panic that was trying to claw its way out, and fought the steering wheel. If she could keep the flaps centered, then they shouldn’t collide with the chute walls. At least this way, they had a chance.

She flicked her eyes toward the readouts. The core temperature was dropping, but would it be quickly enough? This section of the chute was reasonably straight, but there was a kink coming up in thirty-one miles, and they would crash into it like a fly hitting an elephant.

Butler crawled upward toward the rear of the ship. On the way he snagged two fire extinguishers and popped their pins. He tossed the extinguishers into the engine room and closed the door. Through the hatch, he could see the extinguishers cartwheeling, covering the engine with freezing foam.

The engine temperature dropped another notch.

The missiles were closer now, and gaining.

Holly opened all the vents wide, flooding the shuttle with cool air. Another notch toward green on the temperature readout.

"Come on," she said through rippling lips. "A few more degrees."

They hurtled down and down, spinning into blackness. Little by little the ship was drifting to starboard. Soon it would smash into the kink that rose to meet them. Holly’s finger hovered over the ignition. She would wait until the last possible moment.

The engines cooled even further. They were efficient energy-saving units. When they were not in use, they quickly funneled excess heat to the life-support batteries. But still the missiles held their course.

The kink in the chute wall appeared in their headlights. It was bigger than an average mountain and composed of hard, unforgiving rock. If the shuttle crashed, it would crumple like a tin can.

Artemis squeezed words from between his lips. "Not working. Engines."

"Wait," Holly replied.

The flaps were vibrating now, and the shuttle went into a tumble. They could see the heat seekers roaring up behind them, then in front of them, then behind them again.

They were close to the rock now. Too close. If Holly delayed even one more second, she would not have sufficient room to maneuver. She punched the ignition, veering to port at the last millisecond. The bow plates sent up an arc of sparks as they scraped along the rocky outcrop. Then they were free, zooming into the black void. That is, if you can count being pursued by two heat seekers as being free.

The engine temperature was still dropping and would be for maybe half a minute while the turbines heated up. Would it be enough? Holly punched the rear camera view up on the front screen. The rockets were still coming. Unrelenting. Purple fuel burning in their wake. Three seconds to impact. Then two.

Then they lost contact, veering away from their target. One went over the top, the other under the keel.

"It worked," sighed Artemis, releasing a breath he didn’t realize he’d been holding.

"Well done, soldier," grinned Butler, ruffling Holly’s hair.

Mulch poked his head through from the passenger area. His face was slightly green. "I had a little accident," he said. No one inquired further.

"Let’s not celebrate just yet," said Holly, checking her instruments. "Those missiles should have detonated against the chute wall, but they didn’t. I can only think of one reason why they wouldn’t keep traveling in a straight line."

"If they acquired another target," offered Butler.

A red dot appeared on the plasma screen. The two missiles were headed directly for it.

"Exactly. That’s an LEP supersonic attack shuttle, and as far as they’re concerned, we’ve just opened fire on them."

* * *


Major Trouble Kelp was behind the wheel of the LEP attack shuttle. The craft was traveling at more than three times the speed of sound, booming along the chute like a silver needle. Supersonic flights were very rarely cleared, as they could cause cave-ins and, in rare cases, be detected by human seismographic equipment.

The shuttle’s interior was filled with impact-gel to dampen the otherwise bone-breaking vibration. Major Kelp was suspended in the gel in a modified pilot’s suit. The ship’s controls were connected directly to his gloves, and the video ran in to his helmet.

Foaly was in constant contact from Police Plaza.

"Be advised that the stolen shuttle is back in the chute," he informed Trouble. "It’s hovering at one hundred and twenty-five miles."

"I have it," said Trouble, locating the dot on his radar. He felt his heart race. There was a chance that Holly was alive and aboard that shuttle. And if that were true, he would do whatever it took to bring her home safely.

A sunburst of white, yellow, and orange flared on his scopes.

"We have an explosion of some kind. Was it the stolen shuttle?"

"No, Trouble. It came from nowhere. There was nothing there. Watch out for debris."

The screen was streaked with dozens of jagged yellow lines, as hot metal shards plummeted toward the center of the earth. Trouble activated the nose lasers, ready for anything that might head his way. It was unlikely that his vessel would be threatened; the chute was wider than the average city at this depth. The debris from the explosion would not spread more than half a mile. He had plenty of time to steer himself out of harm’s way.

Unless some of the debris followed him. Two of the yellow streaks were veering unnaturally in his direction. The onboard computer ran a scan. Both items had propulsion and guidance systems. Missiles.

"I am under fire," he said into his microphone. "Two missiles incoming."

Had Holly fired on him? Was it true what Sool said? Had she really gone bad?

Trouble reached into the air and tapped a virtual screen. He touched the representations for both missiles, targeting them for destruction. As soon as they came into range, the computer would hit them with a beam of laser fire. Trouble steered into the middle of the chute so that the lasers would have the longest possible line of fire. Lasers were only any good in a straight line.

Three minutes later, the missiles powered around the bend in the chute. Trouble barely spared them a glance, and the computer loosed two quick bursts, dispatching the missiles efficiently. Major Kelp flew straight through the shock wave, insulated by layers of impact-gel.

Another screen opened in his visor. It was the newly promoted Commander Ark Sool. "Major, you are authorized to return fire. Use all necessary force."

Trouble scowled. "But, Commander, Holly may be on board."

Sool raised a hand, silencing all objections. "Captain Short has made her allegiances clear. Fire at will."

Foaly could not remain silent. "Hold your fire, Trouble. You know Holly isn’t behind all of this. Somehow Opal Koboi fired those missiles."

Sool pounded the desk. "How can you be so blind to the truth, donkey boy? What does Short have to do to convince you she’s a traitor? Send you an e-mail? She has murdered her commander, allied herself with a felon, and fired on an LEP shuttle. Blast her out of the air."

"No!" insisted Foaly. "It sounds bad, I grant you. But there must be another explanation. Just give Holly a chance to tell us what it is."

Sool was apoplectic. "Shut up, Foaly! What are you doing giving tactical orders? You are a civilian, now get off the line."

"Trouble, listen to me," began Foaly, but that was all he managed to say before Sool cut him off.

"Now," said the commander, calming himself. "You have your orders. Fire on that shuttle."

The stolen shuttle was actually in view now. Trouble magnified its image in his visor and immediately noticed three things. First, the shuttle’s communications mast was missing. Second, this was a transport shuttle and not rigged for missiles, and third, he could actually see Holly Short in the cockpit, her face drawn and defiant.

"Commander Sool," he said. "I think we have some extenuating circumstances here."

"I said fire!" screeched Sool. "You will obey me."

"Yes, sir," said Trouble, and fired.

Holly had watched the radar screen, following Opal’s missiles through unblinking eyes. Her fingers had gripped the steering wheel until the rubber squeaked. She did not relax until the needle-like attack shuttle destroyed the missiles and coasted through the wreckage.

"No problem," she said, smiling bright eyed at the rest of the crew.

"Not for him," said Artemis. "But perhaps for us."

The attack shuttle hovered off their port bow, sleek and deadly, bathing them with a dozen spotlights. Holly squinted into the pale light, trying to see who was in the captain’s chair. A tube opened and a metallic cone nosed out.

"That’s not good," said Mulch. "They’re going to fire at us."

But strangely, Holly smiled. It is good, she thought. Someone down there likes me.

The communications spike traveled the short distance between the two shuttles, burying itself in the stolen craft’s hull. A quick-drying sealant erupted from nozzles at the base of the spike, sealing the breach, and the nose cone unscrewed itself and dropped to the floor with a clang. Underneath was a conical speaker.

Trouble Kelp’s voice filled the room. "Captain Short, I have orders to blow you out of the air. Orders that I’d just as soon disobey. So start talking, and give me enough information to save both our careers."

So Holly talked. She gave Trouble the condensed version. How this entire affair was orchestrated by Opal, and how they would pick her up if they searched the chute.

"That’s enough to keep you alive, for now," said Trouble. "Though, officially, you and any other shuttle occupants are under arrest until we find Opal Koboi."

Artemis cleared his throat. "Excuse me. I don’t believe you have any jurisdiction over humans. It would be illegal to arrest me or my associate."

Trouble sighed. Over the speaker it sounded like a rasp of sandpaper. "Let me guess: Artemis Fowl, right? I should have known. You people are becoming quite the team. Well, let’s say you are a guest of the LEP, if that makes you any happier. Now, a Retrieval squad is in the chute. They will take care of Opal and her associates. You follow me back to Haven."

Holly wanted to object. She wanted to catch Opal herself. She wanted the personal pleasure of tossing the poisonous pixie into an actual jail cell. And then throw away the key. But their position was precarious enough as it was, so for once she decided to follow orders.





CHAPTER 11

A LAST GOOD-BYE





E7, Haven City

Once they reached Haven, a squad of LEP foot soldiers boarded the shuttle to secure the prisoners. The police swaggered on board, barking orders. Then they saw Butler, and their cockiness evaporated like rainwater from a hot highway. They had been told that the human was big. But this was more than big. This was monstrous. Mountainous.

Butler smiled apologetically. "Don’t worry, little fairies. I have this effect on most humans too."

The police breathed a collective sigh of relief when Butler agreed to go quietly. They could possibly have subdued him if he had put up a fight, but then the massive Mud Man might have fallen on someone.

The detainees were housed in the shuttleport’s executive lounge, evicting several grumbling lawyers and businessfairies. It was all very civil: good food, clean clothes (not for Butler), and entertainment centers. But they were under guard, nevertheless.

Half an hour later, Foaly burst in to the lounge.

"Holly!" he said, wrapping a hairy arm around the elf. "I am so happy that you’re alive."

"Me too, Foaly." Holly grinned.

"A little hello wouldn’t hurt," said Mulch sulkily. "‘How are you, Mulch? Long time no see, Mulch. Here’s your medal, Mulch.’"

"Oh, all right," said Foaly, wrapping the other hairy arm around the equally hairy dwarf. "Nice to see you too, Mulch, even if you did sink one of my subs. And no, no medal."

"Because of the sub," argued Mulch. "If I hadn’t done it, your bones would be buried under a hundred million tons of molten iron right now."

"Good point," noted the centaur. "I’ll mention it at your hearing." He turned to Artemis. "I see you managed to cheat the mind wipe, Artemis."

Artemis smiled. "A good thing for all of us."

"Indeed. I’ll never make the mistake of trying to wipe you again." He took Artemis’s hand and shook it warmly. "You’ve been a friend to the People. You too, Butler."

The bodyguard was hunched on a sofa, elbows on knees. "You can repay me by building a room I can stand up in."

"I’m sorry about this," said Foaly apologetically. "We don’t have rooms for people your size. Sool wants you all kept here until your story can be verified."

"How are things going?" asked Holly.

Foaly pulled a file from inside his shirt. "I’m not actually supposed to be here, but I thought you’d like an update."

They crowded around a table while Foaly laid out the reports.

"We found the Brill brothers on the chute wall. They’re singing like stinkworms—so much for loyalty to your employer. Forensics have collected enough pieces of the stealth shuttle to prove its existence."

Holly clapped her hands. "That’s it, then."

"It’s not airtight," corrected Artemis. "Without Opal, we could still be responsible for everything. The Brills could be lying to protect us. Do you have her?"

Foaly clenched his fists. "Well, yes and no. Her escape pod was ruptured from the blast, so we could trace it. But by the time we reached the crash-down site on the surface, she had disappeared. We ran a thermal on the area and isolated Opal’s footprints. We followed them to a small rustic homestead in the wine region near Bari. We can actually see her on satellite, but an insertion is going to take time to organize. She’s ours, and we will get her. But it may take a week."

Holly’s face was dark with rage. "She’d better enjoy that week, because it will be the best of the rest of her life."

Near Bari, Italy

Opal Koboi’s craft limped to the surface, leaking plasma gouts through its cracked generator. Opal was well aware that this plasma was as good as a trail of arrows for Foaly. She must ditch the craft as soon as possible and find somewhere to lay low until she could access some of her funds.

She cleared the shuttleport and made it nearly ten miles across country before her engines seized, utterly forcing her to ditch in a vineyard. When she clambered from the pod, Opal found a tall tanned woman of perhaps forty waiting for her with a shovel and a furious expression on her face.

"These are my vines," said the woman in Italian. "The vines are my life. Who are you to crash here in your little airplane and destroy everything I have?"

Opal thought fast. "Where is your family?" she asked. "Your husband?"

The woman blew a strand of hair from her eye. "No family. No husband. I work the vines alone. I’m the last in the line. These vines mean more to me than my life, and certainly more to me than yours."

"You’re not alone," said Opal, turning on the hypnotic fairy mesmer. "You have me now. I am your daughter, Belinda."

Why not? she reasoned. If it worked once . . .

"Bel-inda," said the woman slowly. "I have a daughter?"

"That’s right," agreed Opal. "Belinda. Remember? We work these vines together. I help make the wine."

"You help me?"

Opal scowled. Humans never got anything the first time.

"Yes," she said, barely concealing her impatience. "I help you. I work beside you."

The woman’s eyes cleared suddenly. "Belinda. What are you doing standing there? Get a shovel and clean up this mess. When you finish here you must prepare dinner."

Opal’s heart skipped a beat. Manual labor? Not likely. Other people did that sort of thing.

"On second thought," she said, pushing the mesmer as hard as she could, "I am your pampered daughter Belinda. You never allow me to do any work in case it roughens my hands. You’re saving me for a rich husband." That should take care of it. She would hide out with this woman for a few hours, and then escape to the city.

But a surprise was coming Opal’s way. "That’s my Belinda," said the woman. "Always dreaming. Now take this shovel, girl, or you’ll go to bed hungry."

Opal’s cheeks flushed red. "Didn’t you hear me, crone?

I do not do physical work. You will serve me. That is your purpose in life."

The Italian lady advanced on her tiny daughter. "Now, listen here, Belinda. I’m trying not to hear these poisonous words coming out of your mouth, but it is difficult. We both work the vines; that is the way it has always been. Now, take the shovel, or I will lock you in your room with a hundred potatoes to peel and none to eat."

Opal was dumbstruck. She could not understand what was happening. Even strong-minded humans were putty before the mesmer. What was happening here?

The simple truth was that Opal had been too clever for her own good. By placing a human pituitary gland in her own skull, she had effectively humanized herself. Gradually the human growth hormone was overpowering the magic in her system. It was Opal’s bad fortune that she had used her last drop of magic to convince this woman that she was her daughter. Now she was without magic, and a virtual prisoner in the Italian lady’s vineyard. And what’s more, she was being forced to work, and that was even worse than being in a coma.

"Hurry!" shouted the woman. "There is rain in the forecast, and we have a lot to do."

Opal took the shovel, resting the blade on the dry earth. It was taller than she was, and its handle was pitted and worn.

"What should I do with this shovel?"

"Crack the earth with the blade, then dig an irrigation trench between these two frames. And after dinner, I need you to hand wash some of the laundry that I have taken in this week. It’s Carmine’s, and you know what his washing is like." The lady grimaced, leaving Opal in no doubt as to the state of this person Carmine’s clothing.

The Italian lady picked up a second shovel and began to dig beside Opal.

"Don’t frown so, Belinda. Work is good for the character. After a few more years, you will see that."

Opal swung the shovel, dealing the earth a pathetic blow that barely raised a sliver of clay. Already her hands were sore from holding the tool. In an hour she would be a mass of aches and blisters. Maybe the LEP would come and take her away.

Her wish was to be granted, but not until a week later, by which time her nails were cracked and brown, and her skin was rough with welts. She had peeled countless potatoes and waited on her new mother, hand and foot. Opal was also horrified to discover that her adopted parent kept pigs, and that cleaning out the sty was another one of her seemingly endless duties. By the time the LEP Retrieval team came for her, she was almost happy to see them.

E7, Haven City

Julius Root’s recycling ceremony was held the day after Artemis and Holly arrived in Haven City. All the brass turned up to the commitment ceremony. All the brass, but not Captain Holly Short. Commander Sool refused to allow her to attend the commitment, even under armed guard. The Tribunal investigating the case had not made its decision yet, and until it did, Holly was a suspect in a murder investigation.

So Holly sat in the executive lounge watching the commitment ceremony on the big screen. Of all the things Sool had done to her, this was the worst. Julius Root had been her closest friend, and here she was watching his recycling on a screen while all the higher-ups attended, looking sad for the cameras.

She covered her face with her hands when they lowered an empty casket into the ornate decomposition vat. After six months, his bone and tissue would have been completely broken down and his remains would be used to nourish the earth.

Tears leaked out between Holly’s fingers, flowing over her hands.

Artemis sat beside her, placing a gentle hand on her shoulder. "Julius would have been proud of you. Haven is here today because of what you did."

Holly sniffed. "Maybe. Maybe if I had been a little smarter, Julius would be here today, too."

"Maybe, but I don’t think so. I have been thinking about it and there was no way out of that chute. Not without prior knowledge."

Holly lowered her hands. "Thanks, Artemis. That’s a nice thing to say. You’re not going soft, are you?"

Artemis was genuinely puzzled. "I honestly don’t know. Half of me wants to be a criminal, and the other half wants to be a normal teenager. I feel like I have two conflicting personalities and a head full of memories that aren’t really mine yet. It’s a strange feeling, not to know who you are exactly."

"Don’t worry, Mud Boy," said Holly. "I’ll keep a close eye on you to make sure you stay on the straight and narrow."

"I have two parents and a bodyguard already trying to do that."

"Well then, maybe it’s time to let them."

The lounge’s doors slid open, and Foaly clopped in excitedly, followed by Commander Sool and a couple of flunkies. Sool was obviously not as thrilled to be in the room as the centaur, and had brought the extra officers along just in case Butler got agitated.

Foaly grabbed Holly by the shoulders. "You’re clear." He beamed. "The Tribunal voted seven to one in your favor."

Holly scowled at Sool. "Let me guess who was the ‘one.’"

Sool bristled. "I am still your superior officer, Short. I want to see that reflected in your attitude. You may have escaped this charge, but I will be watching you like a hawk from now on."

Mulch clicked his fingers in front of Foaly’s face. "Hey, ponyboy. Over here. What about me? Am I a free dwarf?"

"Well, the Tribunal decided to go after you for the grand theft auto."

"What?" spluttered Mulch. "After I saved the entire city!"

"But," continued Foaly, "considering the time already served for an illegal search, they’re prepared to call it even. No medal, I’m sorry to say."

Mulch slapped the centaur’s haunch. "You couldn’t just say that, could you? You had to draw it out."

Holly had not stopped scowling at Sool. "Let me tell you what Julius told me shortly before he died," she said.

"Please do," said Sool, his words dripping with sarcasm. "I find everything you say fascinating."

"Julius told me, more or less, that my job was to serve the People, and that I should do that any way I could."

"Smart fairy. I do hope you intend to honor those words."

Holly ripped the LEP badge from her shoulder. "I do. With you looking over my shoulder on every shift, I won’t be able to help anyone, so I’ve decided to go it alone." She tossed the badge on the table. "I quit."

Sool chuckled. "If this is a bluff it won’t work. I’ll be glad to see the back of you."

"Holly, don’t do this," pleaded Foaly. "The force needs you. I need you."

Holly patted his flank. "They accused me of murdering Julius. How can I stay? Don’t worry, old friend. I won’t be far away." She nodded at Mulch. "Are you coming?"

"What, me?"

Holly grinned. "You’re a free dwarf now, and every private detective needs a partner. Someone with underworld connections."

Mulch’s chest swelled. "Mulch Diggums, private detective. I like that. Hey, I’m not a sidekick, am I? Because the sidekick always gets it."

"No. You’re a full-fledged partner. Whatever we make, we split."

Holly turned to Artemis next. "We did it again, Mud Boy. We saved the world, or at least stopped two worlds colliding."

Artemis nodded. "It doesn’t get any easier. Maybe someone else should take a turn."

Holly punched him playfully in the arm. "Who else has our style?" Then she leaned in and whispered, "I’ll be in touch. Maybe you might be interested in some consultancy work?"

Artemis cocked one brow and gave a slight nod. It was all the answer she needed.

Butler usually stood to say good-bye, but in this instance, he had to make do with kneeling.

Holly was barely visible inside his hug.

"Until the next crisis," she said.

"Or maybe you could just visit," he replied.

"Getting a visa will be more difficult now that I’m a civilian."

"You’re sure about this?"

Holly frowned. "No. I’m torn." She nodded at Artemis. "But who isn’t?"

Artemis treated Sool to his most scornful gaze. "Congratulations, Commander, you have managed to alienate the LEP’s finest officer."

"Listen here, human," began Sool, but Butler growled and the words withered in the commander’s throat. The gnome stepped quickly behind the larger of his officers. "Send them home. Now."

The officers drew their sidearms, aimed, and fired. A tranquilizer pellet stuck to Artemis’s neck, dissolving instantly. The officers hit Butler with four, not taking any chances.

Artemis could hear Holly protesting as his vision blurred like an Impressionist painting. Like The Fairy Thief.

"There’s no need for that, Sool," she said, catching Artemis’s elbow. "They’ve seen the chute already. You could have returned them conscious."

Sool’s voice sounded as though he were speaking from the bottom of a well. "I’m not taking any chances, Captain, I mean, Miss Short. Humans are violent creatures by nature, especially when they are being transported."

Artemis felt Holly’s hand on his chest. Under his jacket, she slipped something into his pocket. But he couldn’t ask what, because his tongue would not obey him. All he could do with his mouth was breathe. He heard a thump behind him.

Butler’s gone, he concluded. Just me left.

And then he was gone too.

Fowl Manor

Artemis came to gradually. He felt well and rested, and all his memories were in place. Then again, maybe they weren’t. How would he know?

He opened his eyes and saw the fresco on the ceiling above. He was back in his own room.

Artemis did not move for several moments. It wasn’t that he couldn’t move, it was just that lying here like this seemed utterly luxurious. There were no pixies after him, or trolls homing in on his scent, or fairy tribunals judging him. He could lie here and simply think. His favorite occupation.

Artemis Fowl had a big decision to make: which way would his life go from here? The decision was his. He could not blame circumstances or peer pressure. He was his own person, and intelligent enough to realize it.

The solitary life of crime no longer appealed to him as completely as it had. He had no desire to create victims. Yet there was still something about the thrill of executing a brilliant plan that attracted him. Maybe there was a way to combine his criminal genius with his newfound morals. Some people deserved to be stolen from. He could be like a modern-day Robin Hood: steal from the rich and give to the poor. Well, maybe just steal from the rich. One step at a time.

Something vibrated in his jacket pocket. Artemis reached in and pulled out a fairy communicator. One of the pair they had planted in Opal Koboi’s shuttle. Artemis had a vague memory of Holly sliding something into his pocket just before he passed out. She obviously wanted to stay in touch.

Artemis stood, opening the device, and Holly’s smiling face appeared on the screen.

"You got home safely, then. Sorry about the sedatives. Sool is a pig."

"Forget about it. No harm done."

"You have changed. Once upon a time, Artemis Fowl would have vowed revenge."

"Once upon a time."

Holly glanced around her. "Listen, I can’t stay on long. I had to bolt on a pirate booster to this thing just to get a signal. This call is costing me a fortune. I need a favor."

Artemis groaned. "No one ever calls me just to say hello."

"Next time. I promise."

"I’ll hold you to it. What’s the favor?"

"Mulch and I have our first client. He’s an art dealer who’s had a picture stolen. Frankly, I’m flummoxed, so I thought I’d ask an expert."

Artemis smiled. "I suppose I do have some expertise in the area of stolen art. Tell me what happened."

"The thing is, there’s no way in or out of this exhibit without detection. The painting is just gone. Not even warlocks have that kind of magic."

Artemis heard footsteps on the stairs. "Hang on a second, Holly. Someone’s coming."

Butler burst in the door, pistol drawn. "I just woke up," he said. "Are you all right?"

"Fine," said Artemis. "You can put that away."

"I was half hoping Sool was still here so I could scare him a little." Butler crossed to the window and pulled aside the net curtains. "There’s a car coming up the avenue. It’s your parents back from the spa in Westmeath. We’d better get our stories straight. Why did we come home from Germany?"

Artemis thought quickly. "Let’s just say I felt homesick. I missed being my parents’ son. That’s true enough."

Butler smiled. "I like that excuse. I hope you won’t need to use it again."

"I don’t intend to."

Butler held out a rolled-up canvas. "And what about this? Have you decided what you should do with it?"

Artemis took The Fairy Thief and spread it on the bed before him. It really was beautiful. "Yes, old friend. I have decided to do what I should do. Now, can you stall my parents at the door; I need to take this call."

Butler nodded, running down the stairs three at a time.

Artemis returned to the communicator. "Now, Holly, about your little problem. Have you considered the fact that the picture you seek may still be in the room, and our thief may have simply moved it?"

"That’s the first thing I thought of. Come on, Artemis, you’re supposed to be a genius. Use your brain."

Artemis scratched his chin. He was finding it difficult to concentrate. He heard tires crunching on the drive, and then his mother’s voice laughing as she climbed from the car.

"Arty?" she called. "Come down. We need to see you."

"Come down, Arty boy," shouted his father. "Welcome us home."

Artemis found that he was smiling. "Holly, can you call me back later? I’m busy right now."

Holly tried to scowl. "Okay. Five hours, and you’d better have some suggestions for me."

"Don’t worry, I will. And also my consultant’s bill."

"Some things never change," said Holly, and closed the link.

Artemis quickly locked the communicator in his room safe, then ran to the stairs.

His mother was at the bottom of the steps, and her arms were open wide.





EPILOGUE





An Article from The Irish Times, by Eugene Driscoll, Culture Correspondent

Last week the art world was left reeling following the discovery of a lost painting by Pascal Hervé, the French Impres-sionist master. The rumored recovery of The Fairy Thief (oil on canvas) was confirmed when the painting was sent to the Louvre Museum in Paris. Someone, presumably an art lover, actually used the regular mail service to post the priceless masterpiece to the curator. The authenticity of the work has been confirmed by six independent experts.

A spokesman for the Louvre has stated that the picture will be exhibited within the next month. So, for the first time in almost a century, everyday art lovers will be able to enjoy Hervé’s masterpiece.

But perhaps the most tantalizing part of this whole affair is the typed note that came with The Fairy Thief. The note read simply "More to follow."

Is someone out there reclaiming lost or stolen masters for the people? If so, collectors beware. No secret vault is safe. This correspondent waits with bated breath. More to follow. Art lovers all over the world certainly hope so!





Casa Milà was an early twentieth-century dwelling designed by the Spanish art nouveau architect Antoni Gaudí. The façade consisted of curved walls and balconies topped by twisted ironworks. The walkway outside the building was thronged with tourists lining up for an afternoon tour of the spectacular house.

"Will we recognize our visitor among all these people? Are you sure that he is not already here? Watching us?"

Artemis smiled, his eyes glittering. "Believe me, he is not here. If he were, there would be a lot of screaming."

Butler scowled. Once, just once, he would like to get all the facts before they boarded the jet. But that wasn’t the way Artemis worked. To the young Irish genius, the reveal was the most important part of his schemes.

"At least tell me if our contact will be armed."

"I doubt it," said Artemis. "And even if he is, he won’t be with us for more than a second."

"A second? Just beaming down through outer space, is he?"

"Not space, old friend," said Artemis, checking his wristwatch. "Time." The boy sighed. "Anyway, the moment has passed. It seems as though I have brought us here for nothing. Our visitor has not materialized. The chances were slim. Obviously there was nobody at the other end of the rift."

Butler didn’t know what rift Artemis was referring to; he was simply relieved to be leaving this insecure location. The sooner they could get back to Barcelona Airport the better.

The bodyguard pulled a mobile phone from his pocket and hit a number on the speed dial. The person on the other end picked up on the first ring.

"Maria," said Butler. "Collection, pronto."

"Sí," replied Maria tersely. Maria worked for an exclusive Spanish limousine company. She was extremely pretty and could break a breeze block with her forehead.

"Was that Maria?" said Artemis, mimicking casual conversation perfectly.

Butler was not fooled. Artemis Fowl rarely asked casual questions.

"Yes, that was Maria. You could tell because I used her name when I spoke to her. You don’t usually ask so many questions about the limo driver. That’s four in the past fifteen minutes. Will Maria be picking us up? Where do you think Maria is right now? How old do you think Maria is?"

Artemis rubbed his temples. "It’s this blasted puberty, Butler. Every time I see a pretty girl, I waste valuable mind space thinking about her. The girl at that restaurant, for instance. I’ve glanced in her direction a dozen times in the past few minutes."

Butler gave the pretty girl in question an automatic bodyguard’s once-over.

She was twelve or thirteen, did not appear to be armed, and had a mane of extremely tight blond curls. The girl was studiously working her way through a selection of tapas while a male guardian, perhaps her father, read the paper. There was another man at the table who was struggling to stow a set of crutches under his chair. Butler judged that the girl was not a direct threat to their safety, though indirectly she could cause trouble if Artemis were unable to concentrate on his plan.

Butler patted his young charge on the shoulder. "It’s normal to be distracted by girls. Natural. If you hadn’t been so busy saving the world these past few years, it would have happened sooner."

"Nevertheless, I have to control it, Butler. I have things to do."

"Control puberty?" snorted the bodyguard. "If you manage that, you’ll be the first."

"I generally am," said Artemis.

And it was true. No other teenager had kidnapped a fairy, rescued their father from the Russian Mafiya, and helped put down a goblin revolution by the tender age of fourteen.

A horn honked twice. From across the intersection, a young lady gestured through an open limousine window.

"It’s Maria," said Artemis, then caught himself. "I mean, let us go. Maybe we’ll have better luck at the next site."

Butler took the lead, stopping traffic with a wave of one massive palm. "Maybe we should take Maria with us. A full-time driver would make my job a lot easier."

It took Artemis a moment to realize that he was being ribbed. "Very funny, Butler. You were joking, weren’t you?"

"Yes, I was."

"I thought so, but I don’t have a lot of experience with humor. Apart from Mulch Diggums."

Mulch was a kleptomaniac dwarf who had stolen from, and for, Artemis on previous occasions. Diggums liked to think of himself as a funny fairy, and his main sources of humor were his own bodily functions.

"If you can call that humor," said Butler, smiling in spite of himself at his own memories of the pungent dwarf.

Suddenly Artemis froze—in the middle of a heaving intersection.

Butler glowered at the three lanes of city traffic, a hundred impatient drivers leaning on their horns.

"I feel something," breathed Artemis. "Electricity."

"Could you please feel it on the other side of the road?" asked Butler.

Artemis stretched out his arms and felt a tingle on his palms.

"He’s coming, after all, but several yards off target. Somewhere there is a constant that is not constant."

A shape formed in the air. From nothing came a cluster of sparks and the smell of sulfur. Inside the cluster, a gray-green thing appeared, with golden eyes, chunky scales, and great horned ears. It stepped out of nowhere and onto the road. It stood erect, five feet high, humanoid, but there was no mistaking this creature for human. It sniffed the air through slitted nostrils, opened a snake’s mouth, and spoke.

"Felicitations to Lady Heatherington Smythe," it said in a voice of crushed glass and grating steel. The creature grasped Artemis’s outstretched palm with a four-fingered hand.

"Curious," said the Irish boy.

Butler wasn’t interested in curious. He was interested in getting Artemis away from this creature as quickly as possible.

"Let’s go," he said brusquely, laying a hand on Artemis’s shoulder.

But Artemis was already gone. The creature had disappeared as quickly as it had come, taking the teenager with him. The incident would make the news later that day, but strangely enough, in spite of the hundreds of tourists armed with cameras, there would be no pictures.

The creature was insubstantial, as though it did not have a proper hold on this world. Its grip on Artemis’s hand was soft with a hard core, like bone wrapped in foam rubber. Artemis did not try to pull away; he was fascinated.

"Lady Heatherington Smythe?" repeated the creature, and Artemis could hear that it was scared. "Dost this be her estate?"

Hardly modern syntax, thought Artemis. But definitely English. Now, how does a demon exiled in Limbo learn to speak English?

The air buzzed with power, and white electrical bolts crackled around the creature, slicing holes in space.

A temporal rent. A hole in time.

Artemis was not overly awed by this; after all, he had seen the Lower Elements Police actually stop time during the Fowl Manor siege. What did concern him was that he was likely to be whisked away with the creature, in which case the chances of him being returned to his own dimension were small. The chances of him being returned to his own time were minuscule.

He tried to call out to Butler, but it was too late. If the word late can be used in a place where time does not exist.

The rent had expanded to envelop both him and the demon. The architecture and population of Barcelona faded slowly like spirits, to be replaced first by a purple fog, then a galaxy of stars. Artemis experienced feverish heat, then bitter cold. He felt sure that if he materialized fully he would be scorched to cinders, then his ashes would freeze and scatter across space.

Their surroundings changed in a flash, or maybe a year; it was impossible to tell. The stars were replaced by an ocean, and they were underneath it. Strange deep-sea creatures loomed from the depths, luminous tentacles scything the water all around them. Then there was a field of ice, then a red landscape, the air filled with fine dust. Finally they were looking at Barcelona again. But different. The city was younger.

The demon howled and gnashed its pointed teeth, abandoning all attempts to speak English. Luckily, Artemis was one of two humans in any dimension who spoke Gnommish, the fairy language.

"Calm yourself, friend," he said. "Our fate is sealed. Enjoy these beautiful sights."

The demon’s howl ceased abruptly, and he dropped Artemis’s hand.

"Speak you fairy tongue?"

"Gnommish," corrected Artemis. "And better than you, I might add."

The demon fell silent, regarding Artemis as though he were some kind of wondrous creature. Which, of course, he was. Artemis, for his part, spent what could possibly be the last few moments of his life observing the scene before him. They were materializing at a building site. It was the Casa Milà, but not yet completed. Workmen swarmed across scaffold erected at the front of the building, and a swarthy bearded man stood scowling at a sheet of architectural drawings.

Artemis smiled. It was Gaudí himself. How amazing.

The scene solidified, colors painting themselves brighter. Artemis could smell the dry Spanish air now, and the heavy tangs of sweat and paint.

"Excuse me?" said Artemis in Spanish.

Gaudí looked up from the drawings, and his scowl was replaced with a look of utter disbelief. There was a boy stepping from thin air. Beside him a cowering demon. The brilliant architect absorbed every detail of the tableau, committing it to his memory forever.

"Sí?" he said hesitantly.

Artemis pointed to the top of the building. "You’ve got some mosaics planned for the roof. You might want to rethink those. Very derivative."

Then boy and demon disappeared.

Butler had not panicked when a creature had stepped out a the hole in time. Then again, he was trained not to panic, no matter how extreme the situation. Unfortunately, nobody else at the Passeig de Gràcia intersection had attended Madam Ko’s Personal Protection Academy, and so they proceeded to panic just as loudly and quickly as they could. All except the curly-haired girl and the two men with her.

When the demon appeared, the public froze. When the creature disappeared, they unfroze explosively. The air was rent with the sounds of shouting and screaming. Drivers abandoned their cars, or simply drove them into store windows to escape. A wave of humans withdrew from the point of materialization as though repelled by an invisible force. Again, the girl and her companions bucked the trend, actually running toward the spot where the demon had shown up. The man with the crutches displayed remarkable agility for one who was supposedly injured.

Butler ignored the pandemonium, concentrating on his right hand. Or rather, where his right hand had been a second earlier. Just before Artemis fizzled into another dimension, Butler had managed to get a grip on his shoulder. Now the disappearing virus had claimed his own hand. He was going wherever Artemis had gone. He could still feel his young charge’s bony shoulder in his grip.

Butler fully expected his arm to disappear, but it didn’t. Just the hand. He could still feel it in an underwater pins-and-needles kind of way. And he could still feel Artemis.

"No, you don’t," he grunted, tightening his invisible grip. "I’ve put up with too much hardship over the years for you to vanish on me now."

And so Butler reached down through the decades and yanked his young charge back from the past.

Artemis didn’t come easy. It was like dragging a boulder through a sea of mud, but Butler was not the kind of person who gave up easily, either. He planted his feet and put his back into it. Artemis popped out of the twentieth century and landed sprawling in the twenty-first.

"I’m back," said the Irish boy, as if he had simply returned from an everyday errand. "How unexpected."

Butler picked his principal up and gave him a perfunctory examination.

"Everything is in the right place. Nothing broken. Now, Artemis, tell me, what is twenty-seven multiplied by eighteen point five?"

Artemis straightened his suit jacket. "Oh, I see, you’re checking my mental faculties. Very good. I suppose it’s conceivable that time travel could affect the mind."

"Just answer the question!" insisted Butler.

"Four hundred and ninety-nine point five, if you must know."

"I’ll take your word for it."

The giant bodyguard cocked his head to one side. "Sirens. We need to get out of this area, Artemis, before I’m forced to cause an international incident."

He hustled Artemis to the other side of the road, to the only car still idling there. Maria looked a little pale, but at least she had not abandoned her clients.

"Well done," said Butler, flinging open the rear door. "Airport. Stay off the highway as much as possible."

Maria barely waited until Butler and Artemis were belted before burning rubber down the street, ignoring the traffic lights. The blond girl and her companions were left on the roadside.

Maria glanced at Artemis in the mirror. "What happened out there?"

"No questions," said Butler curtly. "Eyes on the road. Drive."

He knew better than to ask questions himself. Artemis would explain all about the strange creature and the shining rift when he was ready.

Artemis remained silent as the limousine swung down toward Las Ramblas and from there into the labyrinthine back streets of downtown Barcelona.

"How did I get here?" he said eventually, musing aloud. "Or rather, why aren’t we there? Or why aren’t we then? What anchored us to this time?" He looked at Butler. "Are you wearing any silver?"

Butler grimaced sheepishly. "You know I never usually wear jewelry, but there is this." He shot one cuff. There was a leather bracelet on his wrist with a silver nugget in the center. "Juliet sent it to me. From Mexico. It’s to ward off evil spirits, apparently. She made me promise to wear it."

Artemis smiled broadly. "It was Juliet. She anchored us." He tapped the silver nugget on Butler’s wrist. "You should give your sister a call. She saved our lives."

As Artemis tapped his bodyguard’s wristband, he noticed something about his own fingers. They were his fingers, no doubt about it. But different, somehow. It took him a moment to realize what had happened.

He had, of course, done some theorizing on the hypothetical results of interdimensional travel, and concluded that there could possibly be some deterioration of the original, as with a computer program that has been copied once too often. Streams of information could be lost in the ether.

As far as Artemis could tell, nothing had been lost, but now the index finger on his left hand was longer than the second finger. Or more accurately, the index finger had swapped places with the second finger.

He flexed the fingers experimentally.

"Hmm," noted Artemis Fowl. "I am unique."

Butler grunted.

"Tell me about it," he said.








